---
title: The Hill-Tribes of Northern Thailand
creation_date: '2000-08-28'
layout: post
---

First thing, supplies. They would 
supply food and blankets. What I needed 
was a poncho for the rain, mosquito 
repelent, malaria tablets, and the all 
important item...toilet paper (In this 
country, toilet paper is not often 
found in bathrooms, so Westerners place 
great value on it. I carry a roll in a 
holster on my belt, like a cowboy in 
the old west.) 

It was a two hour drive into the 
mountains to where our trail began. Our 
guide's name was Cobp. He was a Thai 
native who spoke broken English, 
French, and the hill-tribe languages we 
would need. While we had the latest 
hiking boots and tennis shoes, he did 
his hiking barefoot, carrying his 
thongs for the rocky sections. Cobp was 
as agile and surefooted as a mountain 
goat and knew the trails of the area 
like a cab driver in Littletown, 
Montana. The terrain was rugged. We 
would climb then descend, climb then 
descend, and so on. It was not an easy 
trek. Rain from the night before had 
created lots of mud and there was 
little traction. At one point I slipped 
and slid head first down the 
trail, "Romancing the Stone" meets Pete 
Rose. What a way to start the trek! 

After three hours of hiking we reached 
the Hmong (or Meo) tribe. Colorful 
garments, laughing children, dogs, and 
pigs greeted us. All fell silent as the 
village elder made his way through the 
people to our location. The village 
elder needed to accept our party before 
we had permission to stay. His 
appearance and eighty years of wisdom 
reminded me of Gandolf the Wizard 
from "The Hobbit". His approval was 
swift. We would stay the night with his 
tribe. The village seemed quite small. 
7 or 8 huts, built on stilts. There was 
a well for water and a stream nearby, 
which navigated an intricate series of 
irrigation canals that fed the rice 
paddies. The tribe was almost self-
sufficient. The married women of the 
tribe wore colorful hand-woven 
garments. Most carried small children 
in knapsacks on their backs. White and 
plain color garments indicated 
unmarried tribefolk, mostly children. 
Young boys showed us their skills with 
a sling-shot, consistently hitting a 
small target more than 50 meters away. 

Dinner was cooked in a large kettle 
over an open fire. Rice, spices, and 
mixed veggies. It was a simple meal, 
but while the tribe may not be 
monetarily wealthy, their cuisine is 
rich with flavor. We slept in a large 
wooden hut on cots supported by stilts 
a few feet off the ground. Thai whiskey 
and a song before bed. 

I was first to wake at the sound of a 
villager cutting wood for the breakfast 
fire. I sat outside the hut and watched 
the morning fog lift from the valley 
floor. The night before, our guide had 
told us of Gibbon monkeys singing in 
the early morning. An Irish girl came 
out of the hut and asked if the sound 
we were hearing was the monkeys. I 
didn't have the heart to tell her it 
was a rooster. Breakfast was eggs with 
onions and tomatoes, toast, and instant 
coffee. They like to keep the tourists 
happy with some of the comforts of 
home. 

We set out on the day's hike and waved 
goodbye to the villagers. I was in the 
front of the group and held my walking 
stick in front of me to break the 
spider webs and keep them out of my 
face. After the first hour, we came to 
a footbridge straight out of an Indiana 
Jones Movie. We had to cross one at a 
time as to not put too much strain on 
the primative structure. An hour later 
we encountered a four foot long, purple 
snake on the trail. Our guide said it 
was one of the most poisonous snakes in 
Thailand (ONE of? We don't have ANY 
poisonous snakes in Washington.) The 
hike lasted three hours that morning. 

Our effort was rewarded when we reached 
the elephant camp. These beasts of 
burden would take us the next hour of 
our journey. Elephants have a skin 
tougher than kevlar and hair as coarse 
as the hair on a European girl's legs. 
I straddled the elephants neck, my 
knees tucked in behind its ears for 
steering. Their movement was slow but 
deliberate. The elephants careful 
calculated each step (now imagine the 
size of an elephant's brain and you can 
figure out how fast we were moving). I 
had to pinch myself. I was in the 
middle of Thailand, in the middle of 
the rainforest, on the back of an 
elephant. An hour of elephanting makes 
a sore bottom, so we continued on foot. 
That was when we noticed the leech on 
our guide's leg (bet he wished he had 
the hiking boots now). We crossed a 
magical ridge. Endless mountain peaks 
on both sides of us. On the left, 
Burma, on the right, Laos. We crossed 
streams and waded through rice paddies. 

After another three hours of hiking we 
came to a corn field. The stalks were 
taller than an NBA player. We cut the 
through the corn field only to appear 
in front of the next tribal village. 
This was a Karen tribe. 25-30 huts, 
this village was much larger than the 
one we had encountered so far. Three 
young girls met us at the edge of the 
river we waded through. "Hello...What 
your name?", they said in broken 
English. As much as I didn't want to 
admit it, tourists had been here 
before. Heads peered out of windows, 
working paused for a moment as the 
farang (Westerners) made their way 
through the village to the tourist hut. 
*Walking through the village was a time-
warp back hundreds of years. Michael J. 
Fox had nothing on us. I can't even 
begin to explain the impression and 
pure amazement that we all felt...it 
was genuinely hundreds of years back in 
time. Pigs, chickens, and cattle roamed 
freely through the village. Women 
churned the husks from the grains of 
rice then used baskets to sift out the 
edible portions. In the rice paddies, 
people planted symmetrical row after 
row. The Chiang Mai province is known 
as "The Million Rice Paddie Kingdom". 
The beauty of rice paddie plots rising 
up the sides of mountains is a sight to 
behold and a farming wonder. Opium used 
to be their number one crop, but the 
Queen of Thailand has put great effort 
in helping the hill-tribes change. 
Because opium can grow in almost any 
soil and on small plots of land, this 
task of conversion has been difficult. 
Slowly though, corn, lettuce, and of 
course rice have become the main crops.

The Fall of the Hill-Tribes...

Green curry for dinner, no spice. The 
tourist way. Night fell quickly on the 
village and it was dark and silent, 
except for the tourist hut. It was a 
simple rule of life in the 
village...when it is dark, you sleep, 
light, you work. The tourists payed no 
attention. Some of the younger blokes 
had just opened fresh beers and the 
roar of conversation echoed throughout 
the village. It was the tourists' last 
night on the trek and they were 
oblivious to the customs of the tribe 
people. A short distance away, babies 
started to cry and dogs began to bark. 
They were not used to such noise after 
dark. Bottles clanged, voices rang. The 
tourists seemed to have little or no 
respect for the people of the village. 
Tomorrow they would leave...but the day 
after another group would come. Things 
would never be the same again.

Before light, morning could be heard 
from the roosters' mouths. The tribe's 
people were already at work. Many were 
heading to the rice paddies to plant 
and maintain. Others began the process 
of removing the husks from the grains 
of rice. Children went to the river to 
wash clothes and gets buckets of water. 
Grain was fed to the cattle and 
chickens. Only one hut was silent 
during these most important morning 
activities. The tourists were sleeping 
off the conversation from the night 
before. I slipped out of the hut and 
savored the experience I was witnessing 
(the highlight of my trip so far). 

The others awoke an hour later. A quick 
breakfast and we were off on an hour 
hike to the rafting portion of the 
river. The water rafting would be done 
on bamboo rafts three feet wide and 15 
feet long. Bamboo is incredibly 
boyant. "Lifejackets, we don't need no 
stinking lifejackets!", the guide 
replied to the young tourist girl. 
Whitewater rafting standing on bamboo 
rafts. I never thought that surfing 
would become a lifeskill. But boy, it 
sure was at this moment. Using bamboo 
cane-poles to steer, we navigated the 
white water. We had survived, at least 
physically. At the bottom of the 
rapids, we were met by the return 
vehicle. NO MORE WALKING. 20 kilometers 
over rugged terrain had been enough. 

As we were driven back to the city of 
Chiang Mai, I couldn't help but smile 
at our amazing journey through time. An 
experience none of us would ever 
forget. 

Once in Chiang Mai, I went straight to 
the massage parlor for a $5, 2 hour 
full body massage. Life was good. 


