---
title: Third day in Salvador
creation_date: '2000-05-23'
image: photo.gif
author: Chris Dawson (cdawson)
layout: post
---

### Written by: Chris Dawson (cdawson)

So far I've only really come in contact with people who speak English 
well.  Aside from my roommate who speak English not at all, that is.  
The first person I met was Jussara, the daughter of the woman who is 
renting me the room.  Jussara is medium height with a short bob for 
hair and the typical Brasilian countenance.  She is almost too 
friendly for me to bear sometimes.  Coming from America you grow 
suspicious of people who are overly friendly and I've had to catch 
myself thinking that there must be a reason that she is so nice to me, 
when in fact it is most likely because that is the way she is.  
Tonight we were going to head out to go Salsa dancing but because 
there is no phone in my apartment there was no way for her to contact 
me and I, her, so I assume they went off without me.

I also met Jandaira, the mother of Jussara.  Full of smiles every time 
she sees me, but there is little communication between us because of 
the language barrier.

Today I finally met the Brittos, the family that helped me find 
Jandaira and Jussara.  Rose Britto is the aunt of Louie, a friend of 
mine from Portland.  She is very kind.  I also met her husband today.  
He is retired and for now I gues that means he can nap when he wants 
to.  I also met their daughter Ryan.  Ryan and I spent a good part of 
the afternoon together.  I think Ryan likes the company of someone 
like me because she can speak English.  She took me to lunch at a 
'Comida a Quilo' joint, of course, called Big Beef.  I don't like the 
idea of paying for the food I eat by weight since I am not paid by how 
heavy I am, but the food was pretty decent.

After that we went to the Mercado Modelo.  This apparently was the 
site of a slave trading business.  They now sell arts and crafts from 
local merchants; lots of talismans and sculpture, busts, almost all in 
bright colors to contrast the dominant theme there which was dark 
black women in pure white dresses.  The building where the Mercado 
sits in two stories with a basement.  The basement is covered with 
water except for concrete slabs placed to act as a walkway.  The water 
is only a few feet or so deep but is extremely murky; one child behind 
us grasping his father's hand tightly worried aloud that there might 
be 'tuberão' (sharks).  There were definitely sharks on the first and 
second floors, kid.

Afterwards we stopped outside in the back to see the Capoeira 
fighters.  Capoeira is a different kind of martial art than I have 
seen before.  Lots of high kicks and spins, but landing a blow was 
something that only the lower students did mistakenly.  I like the 
informal nature of Capoeira; it seems like there is a rhythm you find 
with experience but not necessarily something you would get from a 
teacher.

Next we followed the elevator up to Pelourinho, the haunting grounds 
of many of the characters from Jorge Amado's novels.  All the streets 
were pure cobblestone and treacherous.  We sat in a cafe outdoors and 
sipped limão and coca leite(?) from two straws.  A pregnant woman gave 
me a cloth bracelet upon which tying around my wrist I was told to 
make three wishes.  I wished for happiness in my love life in Bahia, 
happiness when I start my job and happiness to my family.

As I write this my body itches.  This bed has bed bugs and there are 
mosquitos about.  I am not sure if it is better that ther are silent 
but not one of them made even the slightest buzz the first two nights 
I slept here.  But if this is roughing it then I really can't 
complain.

I never finished my introductions.  The two men I live with are São 
Paulo, like the city I think, and Luis.  Both are extremely friendly 
and talkative, about what I have no idea, but it is nice to hear them 
speak to a complete stranger like me without hesitation.  I cooked up 
some leftovers for dinner tonight and Luis offered me his hot sauce 
(pimenta) and some flour type of stuff that I've seen before but don't 
know the name of.  Then we talked for an hour or so and he gave me a 
pen from his company.  After that he brought out his television and he 
tuned it to the news for me.  None of what I am writing here makes any 
difference in the grand order of things but I am not sure that is the 
point.  I am profoundly astonished, when I think about it and see it 
in cold black ink here on this paper, at the level of generosity and 
kindness shown to me since I have arrived in Salvador.  Maybe that is 
why, without exception, everyone I have asked so far, loves living in 
here in Salvador.  I plan to keep asking but I think I know the 
answer why.

