---
title: Family trip to Rajasthan
creation_date: '2001-12-07'
image: star.gif
author: maniraji
layout: post
---


-- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- ---
 


JAIPUR:
	We alighted the train at Jaipur station on October 
20. After getting refreshed in the hotel room, we started 
for our sightseeing trip on an “Auto Tonga” (a motorized 3-
wheeler with enough room for 6 people). The first place we 
visited was Birla temple, a temple built by Birla family 
(one of the richest families in India). Then, we went to 
the Central Museum & zoo. In the Central Museum, there is a 
collection of various Rajasthani costumes, tribal costumes, 
swords used by Rajput kings, old miniature paintings, ivory 
articles etc. 

We then entered the pink city. The pink city is a part of 
Jaipur and it is enclosed by walls on all sides. It was 
painted pink in the honor of the visit of Prince of Wales 
in 1876. Inside the pink city, we first visited Isar Lat, 
the tallest tower in Jaipur. This tower was built in 1749 
AD by Sawai Eashwar Singh, the then ruler of Jaipur, to 
commemorate his victory over his younger brother. (His 
brother challenged the king to defeat him in a battle or 
relinquish power. Ultimately, the king emerged the winner.) 
We could see almost the entire city from this tower. Later, 
we went to Hawa Mahal, the famous structure in Jaipur. This 
is a five-story structure built in 1799 AD, to enable the 
ladies of the royal household to watch the life in the city 
as well as the royal processions. We then went to Jantar 
Mantar, an astronomical observatory of medieval times. 
There is a sundial and a few structures for measuring the 
angles of various constellations in the sky. Our next halt 
was supposed to be Sawai Mansingh Museum. But we skipped it 
because we were getting late.

We left the pink city and proceeded to Amber fort. The main 
attraction in this fort is Sheesh Mahal (Mirror Palace). 
There are tiny mirrors all over the walls and the ceiling. 
The king used to sleep there, with oil lamps lit near his 
bed. The mirrors on the wall enhanced the light, as though 
hundreds of lamps were lit. The mirrors on the ceilings 
made it look like the night sky full of stars!  On our way 
back, we saw Jal Mahal, a palace in the middle of a lake. 
The royal family used to spend their evenings here. 

We visited a textile showroom where we were explained in 
detail how the clothes were hand printed in blocks. No 
artificial colors were used. All the colors used were made 
from vegetables, leaves & herbs.

Finally, we returned to our hotel. In the mean time, we 
found that our camera was not working. I left the hotel 
again, fortunately I found the appropriate shop for its 
repair (the manager of our hotel guided me) and returned 
back with the repaired camera. After finishing the dinner, 
we left for the railway station to catch the train for 
Jodhpur.


-- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- ---
 


JODHPUR:
	After an overnight journey, we alighted the train 
at Jodhpur station on October 21. After getting refreshed 
in the hotel room, we started for our sightseeing trip on 
an “Auto Rickshaw” (a motorized 3-wheeler with enough room 
for 3 people: similar to Auto Tonga, but smaller). The 
first place we visited was Umaidh Bhawan Palace. This is 
the only palace built in twentieth century by the rulers of 
Jodhpur. The most remarkable thing about this is the reason 
it was built. There was famine in this area for 3 
consecutive years. Many people were dying of starvation. 
So, Maharajah (Emperor) Umaid Singh, the then ruler of 
Jodhpur, decided to build a palace so that it could provide 
work for many people. Thus, its construction was started in 
1920 and completed in 1936. Food and clothes were provided 
for all the workers and their families. The starvation 
deaths stopped and on the other side, the king got a 
gigantic new palace for his residence. With nearly 350 
rooms, it was one of the largest private residences of the 
world.

	We then went to Mehrangarh fort, built on a nearby 
hill. It is a strong, invincible and very impressive fort. 
There is an elevator provided inside the fort for going to 
the top. (It is the only fort where I saw an elevator.) 
There is a good museum in the fort. Apart from the costumes 
and armory, there are other sections like palanquins, 
furniture of the royal family etc. From the fort, we had a 
fine view of the surrounding landscape. We observed that 
almost all the houses in the old city were painted blue. On 
our way down, we visited Jaswant Thada, a cluster of royal 
cenotaphs built in white marble.

	We had our lunch and went to Mandore garden. There 
are royal cenotaphs in this garden also, built much earlier 
than those at Jaswant Thada. After spending a few hours in 
the garden, we returned to our hotel. 

	In the evening, we went for shopping at Tripolia 
Market. We bought Rajasthani dresses for Sneha and Amoolya 
(our daughters aged 10 & 1 respectively). After finishing 
the dinner at our hotel, we left for the railway station to 
catch the train for Jaisalmer.


-- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 


JAISALMER:
	Jaisalmer city lies in the heart of Thar Desert. 
All the buildings in this city were built of yellow 
sandstone. At sunset, it looks like a golden city! Due to 
acute shortage of water, all the structures were built 
without using water or mortar. The pieces of sandstone were 
bound together by using iron strips. Wooden boards were 
used as ceilings. Founded by king Rawal Jaisal in 1156 AD, 
this city served as a business junction for the traders 
from Persia, Arabia, Afghanistan, China and various parts 
of India during the medieval times. (I was disappointed to 
know that the main item of trade was opium.) Apart from the 
fascinating fort with semicircular bastions, there are a 
few “Havelis” (mansions) built by the prominent families of 
those times. The beautiful architecture in the Havelis made 
them very impressive. The interesting thing is that the 
descendents of those families still live in the Havelis 
only. 

	As Jaisalmer is completely away from all the main 
routes (It is only 100 kilometers away from Pakistan 
border.), the modern civilization has not invaded it much. 
Most of the old houses, old architecture and the old 
culture are still retained. While roaming in the streets 
there, I felt as if I had traveled back in time into the 
medieval age.

	After another overnight journey, we alighted the 
train at Jaisalmer station on October 22. After getting 
refreshed in the hotel room, we started for our sightseeing 
trip on an “Auto Rickshaw”. We went to “Nathmalji Haveli” 
first.  Apart from the exotic architecture at its front 
part, there was nothing much to see there. We went 
to “Patwa Haveli” next. A part of this Haveli was converted 
into a small museum where we saw centuries old furniture 
and utensils (even secret lockers built in the wall) used 
by the family. “Salimsingh Haveli” was our next spot. It 
was built by Salimsingh, the prime minister during the 
monarchy. The view of the fort was marvelous from the top 
of the Haveli. In fact, Salimsingh wanted his Haveli to be 
as tall as the fort, but the king didn’t allow it. 

	We went to Gadsisar lake next. There are a few 
shrines in and around the lake giving the lake an exotic 
look. We saw Royal Palace next and had a glimpse of the 
lifestyle of the royal family. We skipped the fort because 
it was closing time for the Jain temples inside the fort.

	In the afternoon, we started for Sam sand dunes on 
a jeep. No trip to Rajasthan is complete without a trip to 
the picturesque sand dunes of Sam. Sam is 42 kilometers 
away from Jaisalmer and 60 kilometers away from Pakistan 
border. On the way, we saw Jain Temples built in sandstone 
at Amarsagar and a small garden built by a king at 
Moolsagar. However, the temperature was about 40 deg C and 
the heat was terrible. Amoolya’s face turned pink and she 
was semi-conscious. We were scared to hell that she might 
suffer from sunstroke. Fortunately, she drank a lot of 
water and recovered slowly. By the time, we reached Sam, it 
was about 5 PM and the Sun had gone down. Amoolya recovered 
fully and she slept for some time. We hired two camels and 
went for a ride on the sand dunes. Soon, the Sun started 
setting and we watched a glorious sunset over the desert. 
The children played in the sand for some time. Sneha later 
told me that the sand dune was the best place for her in 
our entire tour. After roaming for some time on the camels, 
we returned back to our jeep and then back to our hotel. 

	For the first time since we started in Hyderabad, 
we slept in our hotel room, but not on a train. We started 
by Auto Rickshaw again. We went to the fort first, but came 
back because the traffic was not being allowed inside the 
fort. As we had to walk on a steep road, we postponed our 
trip to fort again. We proceeded to Wood Fossil Park, 17 
kilometers away from Jaisalmer. There are many fossils of 
trees at this park. A thick forest stood in this area 
(where the desert lies now) about 180 million years ago 
(lower Jurassic period). The fossils belonged to that 
period. We saw fossils for the first time in our lives. The 
Wood Fossil Park is the loneliest place I have ever seen. 
When I looked around, I saw desert and only the desert. It 
looked as if we were the lone human beings in the world. I 
fell down and injured my knee at this park. I stepped on a 
stone and it broke under my weight. I lost the balance and 
fell on my face. A few thorns of a plant pierced my left 
arm. However, the injuries were minute and didn’t affect 
our trip further. 

	From the Fossil Park, we went to the fort. We were 
unlucky this time also and the Jain Temples were just 
closed. However, the king’s palace was still open and we 
saw it. The dancing hall is the most significant one. 
There, the king used to sit on an elevated place. The music 
band used to sit opposite to him. The king’s friends and 
the citizens used to sit on either side of king. The 
womenfolk of the royal family used to watch the dance from 
the balconies above. Our sightseeing trip ended then and we 
returned back to our hotel room.

	I went to the railway station in the afternoon for 
booking our tickets to our next destination. We went for 
shopping in the evening. Like Jodhpur, Jaisalmer is also a 
good place for shopping. Many articles made of camel 
leather and camel bone are available there. We purchased a 
bedspread with exotic embroidery of Jaisalmer.  After the 
dinner, we left our hotel for our next destination, Mount 
Abu.

-- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 


MOUNT ABU:

	Mount Abu is the only hill station in Rajasthan 
state. It is located at the southern tip of Aravali 
mountain range, also a southern tip of Rajasthan. The 
British rulers of pre-independent India selected this place 
for escaping from the heat in the plains of Rajasthan.

	After an overnight journey from Jaisalmer, we 
reached Jodhpur on October 24 morning. We traveled by 
another train and reached Abu Road station around noon. 
From there, a ride on a taxi enabled us to reach Mount Abu 
in another hour. After bearing the heat at Jaisalmer, we 
felt the cool weather at Mount Abu to be so pleasant. After 
lunch, we started for the sightseeing by a taxi. We first 
went to Nakki Lake (the highest man made lake in India) and 
enjoyed a boat ride on it. We then went to Honeymoon Point. 
The view of the surrounding valleys was marvelous from 
there.

	Our next spot was Delwara Jain Temples. Built in 
11th and 13th centuries, these marble temples are fine 
specimens of excellent craftsmanship. The beauty of the 
sculpture in these temples was really breathtaking. So many 
shapes were carved out of marble so finely that I am out of 
words to describe their beauty. Apart from the statues of 
human beings, elephants etc., so many other features like 
lotus flowers, wheels, structures resembling modern day 
chandeliers,…… all carved to such a fine detail that even 
the thin petals of flowers were carved with delicacy. At 
some places, the marble was so finely shaved that it became 
semi-transparent. We were told that a lotus flower which 
was 1.6 meters tall (carved out of a single marble stone) 
took six years to be completed. All the doors, walls, 
pillars, ceiling were all carved so finely. These temples 
are a proof that any shape can be carved out of marble.

	We then went to Om Shanti Bhawan, a spiritual 
learning center for “Brahma Kumaris” (Brahma Kumaris are 
like nuns in the Christian religion. The difference is that 
Brahma Kumaris are taught about the spiritual concepts of 
the Hindu religion.) Later, we retired to our hotel room.

	We started in the morning next day by our taxi and 
first went to Peace Park, a meditation center for Brahma 
Kumaris. A beautiful garden is maintained in this park. 
From there, we went to Guru Shikhar (Guru’s peak), the 
highest peak in Rajasthan. Its height is 1722 meters (5650 
feet ). It was named after a saint Guru Dattatreya, who did 
his meditation in a cave at this peak a long time ago. We 
enjoyed the superb view of the surrounding mountains, 
valleys and Mount Abu town from this peak. We then visited 
Achalgarh fort and then, Adhar Devi temple which was carved 
out of a huge rock. We then went to Shankar Math, a temple 
as well as a spiritual center. 

	We had lunch and returned to our hotel room. After 
resting for about two hours, we went to Sunset Point. It 
was heavily crowded there. However, we were able to watch 
the Sun set behind the mountains. The next day (October 
26), we started for our next destination, Udaipur.


-- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 


UDAIPUR:
 	
	Udaipur is a “modern city” when compared to the 
other historical places of Rajasthan. It was founded by 
Maharana Udai Singh in 1559 AD. Udai Singh’s biography is 
quite interesting. He was born in a royal family at 
Chittaurgarh (our next destination), 112 kilometers away 
from Udaipur. He was the legal heir to the royal throne 
there. But, one of his maternal uncles, Banvir was barbaric 
and greedy of the power and he killed Udai Singh’s father. 
After that murder, he decided to kill Udai Singh also, who 
was only six months old then, to eliminate all the rivals 
on his way to power. Udai Singh was being looked after by a 
nurse Panna Dhai in queen’s palace during those days. When 
Banvir entered the palace with a sword, Panna Dhai got the 
word through the maidservants, about his cruel intention. 
She then immediately replaced the prince with her own son 
and hid the prince. Banvir killed Panna Dhai’s son, 
assuming him to be Udai Singh. Later, Panna Dhai took Udai 
Singh away from that fort by hiding him in a basket. She 
was finally given asylum at Kumbhalgarh fort. Thus, Panna 
Dhai sacrificed her own son to save the prince and she 
played a great role in the history by providing a way for a 
new kingdom to cherish in this area. She is still regarded 
as a great person by the people in the area.

At Kumbhalgarh, Udai Singh grew into an young man there. 
When he was planning to establish his own kingdom, he met 
with a hermit one day. The hermit blessed him and advised 
him to build a palace at this area because it is a fertile 
land with lakes and surrounded by hills. Udai Singh 
followed this advice and founded the city Udaipur. After 
Udai Singh, his son Maharana Pratap Singh became the king 
and he protected the kingdom with vigor and resisted the 
advances of Mughal empire of Delhi. He was one of the most 
famous kings of Rajasthan. 

We started on October 26 at Mount Abu for Udaipur. The only 
way connecting these two places is by road. Our bus started 
at 9 AM and soon, it became a tedious journey. The 
Rajasthan Roadways bus was a slow bus and it was stopping 
for 15 to 20 minutes at every stop. The Sun went up and it 
was very difficult to bear the heat. There was a forest 
area on our way and we saw some tribal people. Finally, at 
3.20 PM, we reached Udaipur. The drastic changes in the 
weather from Jaisalmer-to-Mount Abu-to-Udaipur affected my 
health and I started to suffer from throat infection.

After refreshing at our hotel, we started for sightseeing 
by an “Auto Rickshaw”. We first went to Saheliyon  Ki Badi 
(Garden of maids of Honour). The ladies of the royal family 
used to stroll here. It is a beautiful garden with many 
fountains, marble statues and pools. We then went to 
Sukhadia Circle, a big traffic island with a giant fountain 
at its center. There is a small pond around the fountain 
and we enjoyed ride on a small paddleboat on it. Later, 
after visiting a handicrafts showroom, we retired to our 
hotel room.

We started in the morning on the next day and our first 
place was Manik Lal Verma Park. Named after a former 
chairman of the city administration, it is a park built on 
the slopes of a small hill. We then went to Pichchola lake, 
the one inspired Udai Singh. There is a big palace at the 
center of the lake, but we could not visit it because it 
was converted into a luxury hotel. There is Pratap Memorial 
nearby where a bronze statue of Maharana Pratap Singh was 
installed over a small hill. We skipped due to lack of time 
and proceeded to Fateh Sagar Lake. It is a nice lake 
surrounded by many hills on three sides. (On the peak of 
one of the hills lies the Monsoon Palace, a palace used by 
royal family occasionally.) In the middle of the lake, 
there is Nehru Island Park. We went to this park by a 
motorboat on the lake. The view from the park was 
marvelous: the water, the hills, the Monsoon Palace on the 
hill, a small astronomical observatory etc. made scenery 
very beautiful. We then visited Aravali Vatika, a park 
similar to Manik Lal Verma park.

Our next halt was at City Palace. It is the main palace of 
the city and is converted into a museum. Inside the palace, 
we saw Manak Mahal, a hall with mirrors & colored glasses 
on the ceiling and on the floor. The history of Udai Singh 
& Udaipur is diplayed in another hall. The armory of the 
kings is displayed in another. The battle armor of Maharana 
Pratap Singh’s horse was interesting because it had a fake 
elephant trunk. The purpose of this fake trunk was to fool 
the enemy horses and elephants. The enemy horses would 
think it to be an elephant and would not dare to attack it. 
The enemy elephants would also think similarly and would 
not attack this “baby elephant”. After the City Palace, we 
went to Jagdish Temple, a temple built in 17th century and 
it is the largest temple in Udaipur.

Our last place to visit at Udaipur was Bharatiya Lok Kala 
Mandal (Indian folk arts museum). There are many folk 
dresses, ornaments, masks, folk musical instruments etc. in 
it. The main attraction is the puppet show. The children 
enjoyed the dancing puppets in the show. Amoolya even 
approached the stage during the show and the puppet artist 
entertained her by making the puppet to jump on her hand 
occasionally.

We then retired to our hotel room. After lunch, we started 
for our final destination in Rajasthan, Chittaurgarh. 


-- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- ---
 


CHITTAURGARH:

	The fort at Chittaurgarh is the largest one in 
India. A large hill was converted into a gigantic fort by 
Chitrangada Maurya and it was later named Chittaurgarh 
after him. The history of Udaipur and the history of 
Chittaurgarh are interlaced because Udai Singh was born & 
saved by Panna Dhai at this fort only. This fort witnessed 
many battles. Out of them, the attack by Allauddin Khilji 
was the most famous one. It happened in 17th century. Once 
the king of Chittaurgarh, Rana Ratan Singh invited the 
Delhi emperor Allauddin Khilji to his fort for a friendly 
visit. Ratan Singh showed the various places in his fort. 
He also showed him his queen Rani Padmini in a mirror. The 
customs during those days prevented the ladies of the royal 
household to come out directly in front of outsiders. 
According to history, Rani Padmini was the most beautiful 
lady of not only Chittaurgarh, but the entire India. Khilji 
saw only her mirror image and he was breathless at her 
stunning beauty. He then developed an evil plan on his 
mind, to take Padmini to his own palace and forcibly marry 
her. 

After returning to his fort at Delhi, Khilji assembled a 
huge army, went to Chittaurgarh and attacked it. There was 
a fierce battle and Ratan Singh’s army was easily 
outnumbered by Khilji’s huge army. When it was clear that 
their army was losing the battle, Rani Padmini 
committed “Johar”. Johar was the name given to suicide by 
jumping into a burning pile of wood. The ladies of the 
royal household of Rajput empires used to commit suicide by 
jumping into a burning pile of wood when it was evident 
that their fort was going to be captured by their enemies. 
They used to do this to avoid insult in the hands of the 
enemies. So, Rani Padmini and hundreds of her maidservants 
committed Johar. In the battle, Ratan Singh was killed and 
Khilji occupied the fort. Khilji ultimately won the war, 
but he could not achieve his goal behind it. He planned to 
get Rani Padmini as one of his queens, but he could not 
even see her in person. Rani Padmini sacrificed her life 
and saved a big insult to her & to her kingdom. The fort of 
Chittaurgarh still stand high as a symbol of the pride of 
Rajput women.

We boarded the bus at Udaipur bus stand at 4 PM on October 
27. On our way to Chittaurgarh, Sneha showed me a minute 
cloud in the sky. I was delighted to see it because it was 
the first piece of cloud we saw in our entire trip. 
Rajasthan was such a dry area that the sky was 100% clear 
throughout the day at all places. We reached Chittaurgarh 
at about 7 PM. 

By next morning, my throat improved a lot and I could feel 
it almost normal. We started to see the fort by an “Auto 
Tonga”. We had to pass through seven gates to reach the 
interior area of the fort. At the entrance to the interior 
area, there is a view point and from there, we could see 
almost entire Chittaurgarh. Like Jodhpur, the houses in the 
old city are painted blue here also.

The first place we saw was the palace where Panna Dhai 
saved Udai Singh by sacrificing her own son. Adjacent to 
this palace, there is the tunnel where Rani Padmini 
committed Johar. Our next stop was Meera Bai’s temple. 
Meera Bai was a staunch devotee of God Krishna. Although 
she was married to an army chief (who became the king 
later), she insisted that she was married to God Krishna 
only and noone else could win her heart. Her husband could 
not tolerate her behavior and tried to kill her many times. 
But, she somehow survived all those attempts and left one 
day along with a statue of Krishna. According to the 
legend, Meera Bai didn’t die, she gained eternity. Due to 
this reason, there are no idols of Meera Bai in the temple. 
Only a painted picture is there. Meera Bai’s songs praising 
Krishna are famous all over India and even now, her songs 
are sung at most of the temples of Krishna.

After Meera Bai’s temple, we went to Vijay Stambh (The 
Victory Tower). This is a beautiful nine-story tower built 
in 17th century when Chittaurgarh won a big battle against 
Delhi. This tower is so famous that any book on Indian 
history contains its picture without fail. We climbed the 
tower over its narrow steps and reached the top. We could 
see the entire fort and parts of Chittaurgarh from there. 
The steps in the tower were not only narrow, but slippery 
at some places. I slipped once while coming down, but 
luckily not injured. However, my heart was filled with joy. 
Climbing the Victory Tower was one of my ambitions for many 
years and it had been fulfilled. 

Near the Victory Tower, there is Gaumukhi, a natural stream 
of water. The water comes out of a rock through a statue of 
a cow (Gaumukhi means “cow’s face”) throughout the year 
continuously. The water looked free of particles and the 
local people drink it regularly. Next to Gaumukhi, there is 
another temple. The specialty of this temple is that there 
is a single statue with three different faces: Brahma, 
Vishnu & Maheshwara, the three main Gods of Hindu 
mythology. Between this temple and the Victory Tower, lies 
the place where Rani Padmini's maidservants committed Johar.

Our next stop was the historic Padmini Palace. But, we 
could only see it and not enter it! The reason was that the 
palace was built in the middle of a pond. Rani Padmini was 
not only beautiful, but also very “delicate”. She could not 
bear the heat in the summer. So, Rana Ratan Singh built her 
palace in the middle of the pond. On one bank of the pond, 
he built a garden to enable her to stroll in it in the 
evenings. Facing the steps of the palace, there is a room 
on the bank. This was the room where Allauddin Khilji saw 
Rani Padmini’s image in the mirror. To enable the visitors 
to recreate that incident on their minds, mirrors are hung 
on the wall facing Padmini’s palace. The front portion and 
the steps of the palace could be seen in the mirrors.

After the palace, we went to Suraj Pole, a gate at the back 
of the fort. Khilji attacked the fort at this gate. He 
didn’t do it at the front gates because he knew that the 
army of the fort would concentrate mainly on the front 
gates and that the front gates were too strong. Thus, 
Khilji’s army entered the fort through Suraj Pole. By the 
time Rana Ratan Singh and his army realized this, it was 
too late for them.

Our final stop in the fort was at Kirti Stambh (The Fame 
Tower), a tower similar (but smaller) to the Victory Tower. 
It was built by a Jain community about 50 years before the 
Victory Tower was built. We could not climb it because it 
was closed by the authorities. We skipped the small museum 
(We were told that nothing interesting was there.) and 
returned to the town. After lunch, we retired to our hotel 
room. That was the end of our Rajasthan tour.

In the evening, we went to the railway station for the 
final journey in our trip. Our train arrived at 8.15 PM. We 
were traveling the entire next day, i.e. October 29. 
Finally, on October 30, we reached Hyderabad at 6 AM. We 
reached our home and back to our regular life at 6.30 AM. 
That was the end of our pleasant rip to Rajasthan.


