---
title: Mexico/Belize/Guatemala
creation_date: '2001-01-12'
image: phone.gif
author: MD
layout: post
---

### Written by: MD

Dear All
Well it´s been six weeks on the road throughout Mexico and 
Guatemala.
Wow how time flies when you are enjoying the hot temps, 
clear skies
and warm ocean. Not to forget the interesting Mayan Ruins 
and local
Indian cultures and colours. 

Cervesa (beer) tastes better in hot weather!

To give a quick rundown of our itinerary:

1. Mexico City - lots of parks and musueums, cool Zona Rosa 
area

2. Tasco - interesting little town famous for its silver 
craftsmen and
it´s cheap. Check out page www.armyants.com (plug for Andy)

3. Alcapulco - was a beautiful place once upon a time, but 
now ruined
by all the high rises. Appreciated the great view of the 
harbour at
night and the famous divers (50m high)

4. Pie de la Cuesta - this place is bliss. Sun, sand, surf, 
dolphins
and whales swimming offshore. What more can I say!

5. Oaxaca- pretty colonial town. Interesting mayan ruin at 
Monte Alban.

Chiapas
6. Tuxtla Guiterrez - capital of Chiapas. Sumidero Canyon 
was
impressive (1 km high, 4km long, and tons of Crocs and 
birdlife). 

7. San Cristobal - Pretty town in the Chiapas mountains. 
Lots of
traditional Indian clothing in vibrant colours. The 
outerlying
villages were interesting to visit to learn about their way 
of life.

8. Palenque - Mayan Ruin. Quite impressive in the jungle 
setting.
Plenty of bird life. Visited Agua Azul (famous river for 
its blueness
similar to glacier fed lakes) to get the only day of the 
trip that it
poured down! Tropical jungle weather I guess.

Yucatan
9. Merida - Got to see the local Carnival. Plenty of 
colourful
costumes and dance. At the same time saw President Clinton 
and (soon
to be Senator) Hillary Clinton there in the flesh. Also 
visited Uxmal
(another less visited mayan ruin..worth seeing) Also 
managed to have
my bag slashed without my knowing...but amazingly nothing 
was taken!

10. Chichen Itza - the most famous mayan ruin in Mexico 
(impressive),
full of American tourists on their one/two week holiday in 
Cancun. Get
me out of here quick....

11. Playa del Carmen - spent a week to escape the 
backpacking mode and
relax on the Caribbean beach again since Pie de la Cuesta. 
Celebrated
Tori´s birthday in style (tons of Tequila sunrises, 
margheritas,
coronas, dos aquis, etc). Visited Tulum Mayan ruin for the 
day...the
beach was the only highlight.

Belize
12. (former British Honduras) in one day....drove through 
it. Nice to
read English again for less than 24 hours. Creole/Caribbean 
Culture.
Would have liked more time to visit

Guatemala
13. Tikal - the most impressive Mayan ruin we saw and in 
the sticks of
El Peten jungle. Saw all sorts of animals...howler monkeys 
louder than
my mother, spider monkeys, tukons, parrots, etc. Definitely 
worth the
effort to get there. Caought a dodgey flight from there 
across the
jungle to Guatemala City Airport. Heaps of people had 
motion sickness!

14. Antigua - another pretty colonial town with awesome 
Volcano Agua
backdrop. plenty of Gringoes (foreigners) studying Spanish.

15. Lake Atitlan - Gorgeous lake with 3 volcanoes 
surrounding it.
plenty of sun and relaxation in the treehouse to rechard the
batteries...

Mexico again
16. Villahermasa - home of the famous Tabasco Sauce. Have 
had plenty
since staying here. Must have worked too well on Tori as 
she came done
with an upset stomach!

Anyway that´s about it for this email


