---
title: Diving in Dubrovnik
creation_date: '2001-10-18'
layout: post
---

The first stop we made was for a cave dive. It was just the
two of us, so Anton dropped his gear into the water after
filling his BCD vest with air, and helped me into my two
wetsuits, one with a hood, and then into my BCD. I dropped
into the water and then he followed. I was glad that he had
suggested the second wetsuit, since the water was clear but
extremely cold, and got colder as we went deeper.

As we went around the walls near the island, we saw
countless beds of coral, some with orange colored algae, but
most with a dark green. There were sea urchins everywhere.
Most of them had a half shell stuck in their thorns, despite
the fact that there is no way their spines could pierce a
clam shell. I think this is the same phenomenon as teenage
boys who wear "Elevate and decide in the air" basketball
t-shirts. Sort of a ridiculous badge of honor. Their were
even albino sea urchins down there, or perhaps they were
dead and had lost all their purple.

After trolling around the edge of the island, we came across
a black hole in the wall. I had only about a fourth of a
tank left, but Anton motioned that this was OK, and we
proceeded into it. On the surface he had said that it went
back about 200 meters. It seems now like this was much
exaggerated, maybe my excitement caught up with me. Anton
held an underwater flashlight, and I followed the light more
than I followed him. The "cave" was in reality more of a
crack in the wall, and I slithered through with my tank
bumping against the walls on the side and above me, and
tried to keep up with Anton. As we came around the edge of
the cave his light disappeared several times which was
unconfortable. Finally we arrived at a open area and I could
see the surface of the water as Anton pointed the flashlight
upward. Ascending slowly, we broke the surface. Everything
was black inside the cave without Anton's flashlight. When
he shined it on the roof, a few feet above us, we could see
tiny stalagtites, brownish and gooey. Anton said they looked
like shark's teeth, and I thought this was a pretty
inappropriate observation at that time. We then went back
into the water and he pointed to the entrance, and we could
see the light blue crack from the opposite side.

As it turned out we descended to about 38 meters. I didn't
have a depth gauge on my regulator, so I had no idea. The
water was so clear and bright that I had thought we hadn't
dropped beneath 15 meters or so. We were under for around 45
minutes, which was a pretty long time for the depth we were
at, although this wasn't our total bottom time.

After we ascended and rested a bit, Anton said that we would
then visit a bomb dropped during WWII by the Germans, and
then proceed to a wreck and then see another cave. In fact
we saw three German bombs at the bottom. All of them were
completely corroded and you could see that they were empty
inside. Borin the cab driver had told me that some people
here in Dubrovnik would take mines found around the area and
stuff them into fish which would then explode in the water
later. Didn't look like there was much in the way of live
ammunition down there, due in part to the heavy salt water.
But one thing is for sure, war leaves even more than just
death and hatred.

After we looped around the first German bomb, we descended
to see the sunken ship. The hull had almost completely
settled into the ocean floor so you could only see the top
of it, but many other pieces of the boat remained scattered
about. Anton said it was a tourist boat which had
unfortunately encountered engine problems, and the Serbs had
shot it down with machine guns. Only a few people had died
apparently. It was strange to see such geometric shapes in
the water after seeing the smooth rockiness of the coral in
the earlier dive. Another bomb sat on the floor next to the
wreck. Lots of fish gathered about it as well; wrecks
usually provide shelter similar to natural reefs for the
marine life, and this one was no different. In a few years
the sea will probably have beaten it to a pulp and the ship
will return to the dust. As we went in the direction of the
cave, Anton seemed almost clairvoyant as he found several
little octopus, and a sea eel which had a head the size of a
a coke bottle and probably several feet in length. Maybe
even the sea animals are interested in improving tourism in
Croatia? After he found his friends, I looked and looked,
but nothing ever looked different than grey sand until Anton
pointed his light at something and it jetted off in a cloud
of black ink.

Finally, we reach the other cave. As a now experienced cave
diver, I had less anxiety in entering this one. This again
was somewhat like a crack in the wall. This cave, however,
opened into the air within some rocky walls going up. "This
is like a little lake," mentioned Anton. We then descended
back into the water, and followed the crack down. After we
reached the boat, Anton informed me that we had reached 28
meters at the lowest depth. Getting back into the boat, the
fillings in my teeth stung a little bit from the pressure
over the two dives.

These two dives, stretching over a few hours, cost me around
$80, two dives ($58), including equipment rental ($20), the
Croatian diving license good for one year (about 100 Kuna or
$12), and the free boat ride out. Well worth it. Anton can
be reached at 435-737, via email at diver@vdu.hr or
http://diver.vdu.hr/


