---
title: Lava Beds Ate Our Shoes; Maui, HI
creation_date: '2001-04-05'
image: book.gif
author: Mark Kashman (mkashman)
layout: post
---

### Written by: Mark Kashman (mkashman)

"Says here just two miles to the deserted black-sand beach," 
said Carolyna, my wife and love now doning her sneakers in 
place of the recently purchased flip-flops; though they need 
be called flip-flopOFFs! Ten bucks doesn't buy a nice pair of 
anything.

To set the scene, we stood on the southern part of Maui, mid 
March, at an area called La Perouse Bay. To the east, Mt. 
Haleakala rises and peaks out at 10,000+ feet. Hot sun pelts 
our northwestern faces challenging its way through our 15 
spf. The breeding humpback whales full-body breach or tail 
slap about every twenty minutes. It is about midday on a 
weekday. And the road that brought us here ends. Only 4x4 
trucks and jeeps dare to rove beyond the parking lot. By the 
looks of the first few obstacles, I'd say the local auto 
parts stores have seen a few people who said 'ta-heck with 
it, let's give it a try' - the smell of oil and the echoing 
sound of metal upon rock...

The book's description (a wonderful book called 'Maui 
Revealed') reads like a poetic dandelion gently blown on a 
fine summer day. It described a small remote beach brimming 
with shoreline darkness in an oasis of greenery in the middle 
of an expansive lava field. Our eyes read over the parts 
about the greenery and beach. Our feet fixated on the part 
about the lava, and translated it thus- lava=pumice=porous=
rough=ouch=rubber=gone! So, ok, no open toed shoes, right?

Right! With flip-flops removed, Carolyna is ready to brave 
the trail, known as the King's Highway, with low-top Chuck 
Taylors. Me, I sport a similar pair of blue Vans.

The first part of the trail is pretty easy. It is about a 
half mile into it where the true grit falls beneath our feet. 
It is both a treasure and a trick to see the King's Highway 
lay out in front of us. The trail splits right down the 
middle of a jagged, arid landscape full of stories of foot 
traffic from the past. We imagine Hawaiian Kings carried upon 
wheel-less carriages and servants manipulating the rocky 
terrain below. The ocean sounds boom in the distance and the 
wind howls. Within the first few hundred yards we figure the 
Hawaiian servants would have been using a whole book of 
silent expletives by now.

I couldn't get over the fact that the native Hawaiians wore 
no shoes on the King's Highway. Two steps on the crumbly lava 
with bare feet would've left me wincing like a baby. Each 
step tests the durability of both our shoes, our feet, and 
ankles too. The rocks just whittle away at the soles of our 
shoes like wood to a swiss army knife.

One other important aspect the book stresses is how much 
water to bring... a lot! It's amazing how lava soaks up the 
sun and makes the aura of the Earth breathe fire with an 
updraft of air that pulsates the mist of mirage. Phew! So we 
drink like fish till our gills burst. Then we sweat, than we 
drink more. We are evaporative coolers humming right along. 

After two miles we come upon the turn in the trail we had 
read about. "Hang a left and go into the green oasis." So we 
do. We don't believe it at first because it looks too real to 
be real. But, once off the main highway we actually start to 
dodge tree branches. Now, this wouldn't be a strange thing 
for the rest of Maui, but here among the rocks stands a mass 
of trees defying the rest of the bleak landscape. They appear 
so green in contrast, like someone had cranked the chroma 
colors on the TV set. 

The path finally wanders its way around and plops us right 
onto a pristine black-sand beach. And instantly we are 
beckoned into action and rest; I into snorkel gear and 
Carolyna to the towel armed with a thick book and sunglasses. 
Boom the water is cool. The beach is hot. No one is around 
and our feet are free of sneakers, now well worn and slightly 
rounded on the bottoms. Yes! This is the destination. This is 
the call of the wild. This is where turtles float down below. 
And whale sounds permeate the ocean. This is a pretty darn 
nice place on a sunny midday weekday.

And this is how we destined that day in Maui - to seek to 
define the road less traveled. Well, that was on this day. 
The next day we spent chasing pi√±a coladas with flower-
patterned hats shaded from the sun. The flip-flops flipped 
back on and nothing but Aloha all around.


