---
title: South Africa
creation_date: '2001-01-12'
image: phone.gif
author: MD
layout: post
---

### Written by: MD

Apr/May 1999

I got in from South Africa a few days ago after enjoying a 
month travelling up the coast from Cape Town to 
Johannesburg via Durban and Swaziland. What a great way to 
unwind before arriving home. I would reccommend South 
Africa to anyone as there is so much to see and do, as I 
will explain in my summary below:

I flew in to Cape Town passing by Table Mountain to
the airport. The first thing I noticed on arrival
was the relaxed pace of life which I had almost forgotten 
existed in the Southern Hemisphere. Bliss!

I spent 10 days in Cape Town (Kaapstad - in Afrikans)which 
allowed me to see and do a lot. Some of the highlights 
included a drive out to Cape of Good Hope, climbing Table 
Mountain, enjoying a Stellenbosch Vineyard tour, visiting 
the famous Cape Flats black townships, sipping on a few 
sundowners at "Le Med" in Clifton, watching Gary Kirsten's 
cricket testimonial at Newlands Cricket Stadium over a 
braai (BBQ)under the scoreboard, and also the Super 12 
match between Western Stormers and Auckland Blues in a 
48000 one eyed Newlands crowd! I can't get over how 
beautiful Cape Town is as a city. It certainly has to rate 
in the top 5 I've visited.

I next headed up the coast along the Garden Route to a
small holiday resort called Knysna where I enjoyed the 
outdoors. I spent 2 days mountain biking, kayaking, and 
abseiling/rapjumping. Awesome.

Then I headed to a small seaside village called Kenton-on-
Sea. It was a pretty sleepy retirementholiday destination 
but the locals were extremely friendly and knowledgeable 
about their country both sport and politic/history. It also 
had reasonable surf for boogieboarding.

After a couple of days I headed to East London for a week 
where I caught up with friends of mine who I worked with in 
London (UK). While there I pretty much just hung out 
catching up and relaxing while occasionally visiting the 
beach.

Durban was next stop but not before going through the 
Transkei (Nelson Mandela country). Just beautiful.

Unfortunately I didn't get to camping out on the wild coast 
as I had stayed longer than I had planned in East London. 
Still there's always next time. Anyway once in Durban I 
caught up with Joanne (my mate Adrian's girlfriend). She 
showed me how to party the South African way....heaps of 
braais, booze, and friendly hospitality. A great weekend, 
but very full on.

My next stop was the game reserves of Umfolozu & Hluhluwe 
in Zululand. I spent 3 days in and around here viewing many 
animals including...giraffe, zebra, cape buffalo, water 
buffalo, white rhinos, black rhinos, warthogs, elephants, 
hippos, but no leopards or lions. Pretty amazing and great 
photo opportunities. I also got to visit a local traditional
zulu village. Very interesting culture and crafts.

My last stop before flying home was Swaziland. Wow what a 
wonderful place and very interesting culture. While here I 
enjoyed more game reserve viewing, visit to a modern Swazi 
village and the memorial of their late king, who has been 
very influencial in keeping peace and diplomacy in the 
Southern part of Africa for the past 60years. We stayed in 
a large game lodge. A great place to wake up to....bird's 
chirping, waterbuck feeding from the waterhole in front of
the lodge, hippos belching, etc. A mini paradise.



