---
title: Mirogoj Cemetery in Zagreb
creation_date: '2001-10-21'
image: star.gif
author: Chris Dawson (cdawson)
layout: post
---

### Written by: Chris Dawson (cdawson)

This morning I decided to visit Mirogoj cemetery, in the 
north part of Zagreb.  I got on the bus at the stop above 
the Dolac market.  I wasn't sure about where to get off for 
the cemetery, but when I saw the countless older women 
holding bouquets of flowers, I knew that I could just 
follow them off and everything would be alright.  I bought 
an all day ticket on the bus for 16 kuna after a woman on 
the bus politely explained in English that I could buy the 
ticket right there.  I was worried that I would have to 
find a newspaper stand down in Trg Jelaèiæa.

Anyone who had forgotten flowers in their haste needn't 
have worried, for there were plenty of flower stands 
dotting the edge of the cemetery as the bus pulled up and 
dropped us off.  The cemetery is enclosed in by a great 
wall with parapets every few dozen meters.  The entranceway 
to the cemetery is truly amazing, with ivy covered walls 
and arched doorways.  The entrance to St. Peter should be 
so beautiful.

I sit down after walking for a while in front of the grave 
of a one Marieta Pollack.  It is a really big tomb, about 
ten feet wide and six or seven feet deep.  She lived from 
1875 until 1925, so this is one of the older tombs in the 
cemetery I imagine.  There are a few other names added to 
her headstone.  None of the names seem to have the same 
last name as she did.  This was different from the rest of 
the tombstones which often had "Obitelj Markovic" 
or "Obitelj Balantin" inscribed upon it.  From my little 
yellow dictionary I soon learned that "obitelj" 
means "family."  Her headstone has the Star of David on it, 
and something in Hebrew which I cannot read, but which I 
see on a good number of the stones in this area of the 
cemetery.  There is an inscription that reads "Što ljubav 
spaja smrt ne razdvaja."

Her headstone seems to be on the edge of the Jewish section 
of Mirogoj.  Towards the edge of the cemetery I began to 
notice more and more German names, last names like Weiss 
and first names like Adolf.  And, at the same time, more 
and more of the tombstones began to replace the long cross 
with the Star of David.  The tombs are in most other ways 
identical to the rest of the ones I saw previously; 
typically black marble slabs on top of a black box, which 
was set into the ground, and with a matching stone 
headpiece sitting perpendicular to the ground.  Marieta 
Pollack's grave also had a small bench in front of it.  
This wasn't typical.  Only a few of the graves had a 
bench.  About half of the benches had a back to them, and 
this back always forced the person sitting in the bench to 
face the grave, as if to remind the person for what they 
were here.  Some of the other benches had no backing, as if 
to say that they appreciated whatever closeness and company 
they could get.  I found it interesting that the benches 
with the back piece on them almost always were covered in 
moss and in greater disrepair than the ones with a back.

This truly is one of the most beautiful places I have 
visited in Croatia.  The small paths through the cemetery 
cut straight through the graves, dividing them into large 
groups of several hundred tombs.  I could not tell if these 
larger groups had any particular significance.  Trees line 
the edges of the paths, and since it is early fall when I 
am visiting, the leaves, some of which litter the path and 
some of which stil cling to the tree branches, contrast 
nicely with the grey sky and the gravelly stone under my 
feet.  The land in the cemetery is uneven, and the paths 
roll up and down the ground between the tombs.  In most 
cases these paths go straight, but around the edges the 
paths curve and bend.

Today is Sunday, and the people here are almost all 
elderly, although I am not sure if this is normal.  The 
footsteps over the concrete paths remind you of this fact; 
broken and deliberate footsteps, sometimes you can hear one 
foot as it is slowly dragged behind the other.  Shhhh-tk.  
Shhhh-tk.  Some people hover over the graves, holding 
flowers.  Some dilligently clean the marble slabs with 
containers of water, brooms and by simply picking off the 
leaves.  Some do this alone, while others have come in 
groups.  As I pass people I try to check the date of the 
tombstone.  One older man must have buried his wife 
recently; her tombstone says 2000.  He stands alone in the 
long row of graves where he brushes the dirt from her grave.

As I continue about the cemetery, it seems like many of the 
graves followed the style of those around them.  In one 
section most are black marble, with similar boxy 
construction.  In other areas the stone is a lighter 
color.  As I progress back to the entrace, there is more 
originality, some graves even add black wrought iron fences 
around them.  I find it funny that there are several tombs 
on the very edge of each divided section which are so 
plain, in sharp contrast to the other tombs which are so 
careful assembled and planned.  These simple tombs must get 
more attention from tourists like me than the more 
elaborate ones in the center.  Then there are the older, 
fancier graves which in their day must have been 
magnificent, but in their decrepitude remind everyone that 
no matter what your legacy in life, death has a way of 
limiting your power over the future.

