---
title: Cuba - the good and bad
creation_date: '2001-01-12'
image: paper.gif
author: MD
layout: post
---

### Written by: MD

April 1999

Cuba, what an interesting place??!!
My arrival into Havana wasn't the best, being faced with 
corrupt 
customs and police trying to set me up with a drug import 
charge only 
to ask me to bribe them out of it so they could score a few 
very 
valuable US dollars. Their plan failed thanks to me 
verbally abusing 
them loudly so the whole airport could hear me. They 
realised that 
they had a "live one" and thought the whole scam wasn't 
worth it and 
let me go! After gaining my composure in the taxi on the 
way to my 
hotel, I found out they had no rooms left and ended up 
sleeping in the lounge. "Welcome to Cuba" I thought.

Bearing in mind all the govt and police are corrupt, you 
cannot be touched as a tourist. Cuba i found is very poor 
and lacks a decent/modern infrastructure. Despite this the 
people are highly educated , friendly, but very desperate 
for US dollars - to pay for modern imported goods. The 
average doctor's salary is only US 20.00 per month! police 
get almost double- plus additional benefits ...bribe money. 
Local Cubans have no freedom of speech and if caught 
talking or hanging out with tourists without police 
approval, they can be arrested on the spot - as happened 
with a local who drove me and some friends between Trinidad 
and Sancti Spiritus just to get US dollars, only to be 
caught and redirected to the police station to be arrested. 
We as tourists were let off Scott free. One girl i met in 
the main square during a rave (no not a hooker!) was 
reluctant to show me how to Salsa due to her being afraid 
of being arrested by the cops as a prostitute (and no she 
wasn't just using it as an excuse to get away from me!).

Enough negativity for now, the one thing that keeps you 
going is the live bands playing everywhere - rumba, salsa, 
jazz, Afro Cuban, etc. I didn't hear one poor band. The 
other bonus is the cheap RUM, Rum, Rum -did I say the Rum 
was cheap. I must stop that! RUM, RUM, RUM, - salsa, legs, 
hips, breasts...stop that! Toking on cigars goes with the 
territory and can be used as foreplay, not as Clinton used 
them though..only to smoothen out the shots of Neat RUM. To 
top it off... Cuban Baseball -it's arguably the best in the 
world. These guys have got it right over herer...gorgeous 
women (who dance like they're always horney!), baseball 
every weekend, and cheap rum and cigars. Shame they haven't 
git enough money to house themselves properly or food for 
the family. That is the whole irony of the revolution. 
Prior, there was a corrupt govt used as a pawn for the US 
govt, but at least if you worked hard, you made money and 
if you didn't you staved! Immediately after the revolution 
of the 1960s, there was a period of equal prosperity and 
happiness. But as Castro went doen the road of socialism 
towards communism, along came the police state and 
corruption and more poverty (not helped of course by the US 
Trade Embargo).

Only now is the Cuban govt earning hard currency by 
blatantly ripping off the tourist and heavily subsidising 
locals. To give you an example one US dollar = 20 Cuban 
pesos. Locals pay 2 pesos while tourists pay USD 2.00. 20 
times more and the quality is piss poor. It's only when you 
get to the beach resorts or the top hotels where you get 
what you pay for (although at astronomical rates) and they 
don't allow any local Cubans into these areas unless they 
work there. A type of segregation you could say. Besides 
they couldn't afford to stay. Racism is running rife in 
that black negros are considered bottom of the pile 
followed by the Moletos (mixed races). Top is of course 
those of Spanish decent.

Those thinking of travelling independently are in for a 
tough time. The only feasible way of affording a night's 
accomodation on a backpackers' budget is in a "casa 
particular" (private room) in locals homes. These houses 
are registered and there is no problem with theft, because 
if there was the house would automatically lose there 
licence and the culprit would lose their hand! Rather 
barbaric but effective.

Of the places I reccommend...
**Trinidad... is a very pretty colonial town and backs intl 
the Play Ancon (nice white sanded Caribbean beach and 
excellent for scuba).
**Vinales... has a beautiful backdrop of smoothfaced 
limestone mountains to contrast the bright orange soils and 
green and brown tobacco leaves
**Havana....check out the old town (slowly being 
renovated), have a ride in one of the many 1950s chevy 
taxis (that's only if you like smell of petrol fumes), 
exclusive Mirimar (the equivalent of Beverley Hills in the 
1950s with huge mansions), Hemmingway History...and of 
course the "Tropicana" caberet. 
**Santiago de Cuba...learn all about the home of Ron (RUM) 
from the Bacardi family museum, visit many secluded 
uncrowded beaches, the castillo (castle) del Morro (famous 
site of battles between the US and Spanish in thelate 
1800s), Gran Piedro (majestic views of Santiago and 
surrounding areas) and the Sierra Maestro mountain range 
(great hiking and significant history where the revolution 
began with the landing of Castro and his men from Mexico.

All in all, if you want to get a lot out of Cuba, you must 
escape the comfort of your packaged tour, 4-5 star hotels 
and guided tours. Plus bring plenty of US dollars - for 
both legal and illegal ripoffs!

Let's finish this on a positove note....bring on the 
Cohibas, ron, basball, live music, salsa dancing, sun, 
beaches, historic buildings, 1950s chevies, mojitas, cuba 
libres, cheap prostitutes ...did I say that...whoops.. only 
the Italians and French partake in that kind of activity!!

Cheers



