---
title: travel in Italy after September 11th
creation_date: '2001-10-10'
layout: post
---

I am sure I was not alone in my thinking about getting on 
an airplane after September 11th.  I definitely gave it 
more reflection and thought than I would have given it 
before that day.  I have read countless pieces via email or 
on different web sites about what pilots have said before 
take off, and about what passengers have done to those 
sitting next to them, both negative and positive.  Nothing 
out of the ordinary occurred, no tear jerking speeches from 
the cockpit, and no suspicious eyes following anyone as far 
as I could tell.  Things seemed to be back to normal, as 
best they could.  

I wonder if this is the way it should be after something 
like the attacks.  One part of me hopes that this will be a 
catalyst for people to review what is going on in the rest 
of the world.  I worry this will mean that Americans will 
stop visiting other parts of the world, people will entrust 
their vacations to resorts and Disney and cruise ships.  As 
an American I feel that Americans are blessed in that we 
live in a country rich in resources and full of people with 
new ideas about how they want to live their lives, but I 
also see the isolationism that we are a part of because of 
our geographic location in the world, and because of the 
policies of our government in a great many cases.  I hope 
that despite the terrible things that happened several 
weeks ago that Americans, and all people around the world, 
choose to learn more about the rest of the world because of 
it, instead of closeting themselves more because of fear.

Today we visited the Sistine Chapel.  I missed it the first 
time I went to Italy several years ago.  I almost did not 
take this trip because of the threat of more terrorism.  I 
am really glad I did.  Nothing can describe the amazement 
when you stand beneath those works of art, and everyone 
should have the opportunity to see that.  It truly is a 
testament to the power of religion, and devotion.  After 
some introspection, the issues of today are not so 
different as they were hundreds and thousands of years 
ago.  Religion and a search for power still drive people to 
do incredible acts, and also commit terrible atrocities.

One thing never changes as we walk around the cities of 
Italy.  We have seen people from all over Europe, and all 
over Asia, and people from the Middle East, and all other 
parts of the world.  As you travel, you notice that their 
mannerisms might differ slightly, and their dress might not 
be the same as what you see in your home country, but at 
their very depths, people are people.  We walked around 
Milan late at night the day America began bombing, and as 
if by fate, we walked by countless groups of Arabs out in 
the streets, listening to radios.  My heart beat faster, 
but why?  No one cared who I was.  They were only 
interested in getting more information about the attacks, 
just like I was.  And on the train from Florence to Rome 
yesterday, we overheard people talking about the "war," and 
I have yet to hear someone here speak out in support of 
this war, or any war.  

I love to travel.  It is a selfish thing in so many ways, 
just to expose myself to things that I think are 
beautiful.  But, travel also exposes you to the rest of the 
world, and no matter what politicians want you to think 
about the rest of the world, people are people and 
individually people do not look to kill or injure other 
people.  I hope that people can remember this after 
September 11th, and continue to remember that we are not so 
different from our neighbors around the world.

