---
title: Angrezis in Bharat
creation_date: '2001-01-12'
image: camera.gif
author: MD
layout: post
---

### Written by: MD

Well since we last wrote we were heading for India.

On our way there we stopped in at Chitwan Nat. Park
(Nepal Border) to experience elephant riding while
looking for various species of animal including the
one horned rhino and the tiger in the local jungle. We
were lucky to spot the one horned rhino but no luck on
the tiger front. We also had fun bathing the elephant.
We joined it in the river sitting on its back and
getting soaked in the process by either it spraying us
with its trunk or just dunking us. A great experience.

Varanasi was our next stop where we enjoyed a dawn
boat ride on the Ganges veiwing the locals daily
ritual of bathing, washing and even dying in the
Ganges. With respect to the latter, before the bodies
are cremated next to the Ganges, they are doused into
the Ganges to purify their soul for afterlife.
Varanasi or Benares as it is known to the locals has
to be seen to be believed for the out and out
polution, be it from carbon monoxide to cowshit!! Cows
are allowed to roam free in Hindu countries which
causes chaos at times with the traffic. I also got to
play cricket with the locals in the narrow alleys of
the old town but had to avoid the brown cowpatts in
the process! It was quite coincidental that the NZ
cricket team was playing India at the same time.

We then headed to Bandhavgarh Nat Park where we struck
lucky seeing the Bengal tiger in the wild on a number
of occasions. It was pretty awesome to see it in the
flesh so close in its natural environment. Definitely
a highlight in India so far. For the record this park
has the highest density of tigers for any national
park in India, so the odds of getting to see a tiger
are better than average.

Khajuraho was where Victoria and I got to view the
famous erotic sculptures embedded in the temples of
the village. I will be sure to practice a few new
positions for the honeymoon!!

Orchha was our next stop which is famous for its
palace and outerlying temples which were built in the
17 century during the Mughal period. The Mughals
certainly know how to build - massive. We spoilt
ourselves with a night in the palace. I'm definitely
in Victoria's good books for that!!

In Bharatpur we visited Keoladeo Ghana Natl Park, a
famous migratory birds sanctuary built 300 years ago
by a local Maharaja for his sporting pleasure of
shooting waterfowl. Now, about a third of the park is
flooded which makes a perfect location to see the
endangered Siberian crane along with many herons,
stags, and geese to name just a few, which we did
while riding on bicycles. 

Then another major highlight, in Agra - the Taj Mahal.
This has got to one of the most amazing man made
wonders of the world. The whole building is built out
of solid marble and took 22 years to build yet only
one day to take down the scaffolding! Once again the
Mughals are resonsible for the building of the
mausoleum. Agra is also famous for its Red Fort which
has been the most impressive we've seen thus far,
although I hear the forts in Rajastan are equally
impressive.

Now we are in New Delhi and have caught up on chores
and spoilt ourselves with a few western comforts. Not
to mention do some shopping. We have also had a lot of
fun riding around in the auto-rickshaws (3 wheeled 2
stroke engine taxis) visiting both New Delhi (British
colonial influence) and Old Delhi (just manic traffic
and bazaars)

Thanks to those who responded and gave us a run down
of what you have been up to.


