---
title: SOLO TANGO IN BUENOS AIRES
creation_date: '2001-02-14'
image: phone.gif
author: macfroggy
layout: post
---

### Written by: macfroggy



It’s just before dawn, and our small group of Argentines 
and Americans are tired and filled with reverie after a 
night of tango. We’re drooped over cafés con leche on an old 
wooden table in a run-down nineteenth-century coffee shop. 
The large party over by the dark windows also look like 
they’ve been up all night having a good time. The men are 
wearing jackets, the women décolletage, all somewhat portly 
and of a certain age. 
	Suddenly one of the men stands up and begins to sing, 
loudly, proudly, passionately. Heads nod with approval. A 
woman in gold beads joins in. 
Several others, our table included, brighten with the music 
and begin to clap along. I don’t understand the words, but I 
know it is Tango--love, life, disappointment, desire, joy 
and sadness.
	Marcello can not resist the siren call of the emotional 
song, even after dancing all night. He’s an Argentine. He 
looks at me purposefully, and we tango on the cracked black 
and white marble floor around the men having breakfast with 
their newspapers on their way to work. 
	It’s a normal morning in Buenos Aires.
	What is tango, anyway? I had danced other dances all my 
life, both ballroom and theatrical, but I really didn’t know 
the answer to that question. I knew Tango meant more than a 
dance, certainly more than a (slow slow quick quick slow) 
ballroom exhibition, a campy movie moment, or a Broadway 
show. Because I wanted to experience the legendary dancers’ 
dance and all that Tango meant, I made a pilgrimage to 
Buenos Aires. 
	Knowing no one in Argentina and no Spanish, I was lucky 
enough to hook up with a tour of dancers who I found on the 
Internet. But it didn’t matter, I would have gone anyway. 
Tango is addictive and I already was a junkie after only 
three months of tango dance classes in L.A. Besides, being 
alone after the death of my husband, if I waited to find a 
traveling companion, I would never go anywhere.
	Tango permeates the air of Buenos Aires--tango art and 
history, the dance of politics, the music of extinct German 
bandoneons, a 24 hour Tango TV channel, tango dancers on the 
streets, tango clubs two per block, curios and postcards, 
altars to Carlos Gardel. The city could just as easily be 
called Tango Aires. For a tanguera wanna-be like me and the 
other American women I met on the trip, it was paradise.
	Buenos Aires is often called the Paris of South America, 
perhaps because a lot of the city’s architecture emulates La 
Belle Epoque and if you squint your eyes it is possible you 
could be in Paris: the French windows, balconies, wrought 
iron, sculptures of large buxom women over doorways. Elegant 
cupolas pop up on rooftops all over the city’s skyline, 
stamping the city as somewhat European and indefinably 
Buenos Aires.
	But the Argentines are not sitting for hours in sidewalk 
cafés discussing and arguing and philosophizing like the 
French so love. Despite the city’s mild and sunny weather, 
Buenos Aires has few sidewalk cafes in which to have a cafe 
con leche and people-watch, to observe that the Argentines 
are slim, stunningly beautiful, well-dressed, and have 
perfect posture (due perhaps to their dance-charged 
culture.)
	Instead of sitting and talking, the people of Buenos Aires 
are dancing. They go to practicas and even milongas (tango 
clubs) by day, and fill the dance halls from midnight till 
dawn every night of the week.
	During my stay, I didn’t shop, sightsee or sleep more than 
an occasional nap. I lived on cafés con leche, little 
croissants called medialunas, chicken empanadas , and vino 
tinto, all on the run. At midnight I would wrap my feet and 
pad my toes before stuffing them into spike-heeled 
pointy-toed tango shoes, and then hobble down the hall to 
the elevator. I suffered until blessed numbness set in an 
hour later. Then once the music began, I would float on air 
across the hard cement and tile floors of the tango halls. 
After one milonga closed, I went to another one, and when it 
closed, I had breakfast. Then I soaked my bloody feet in the 
huge lavender bathtub of my room at the Hotel Continental, 
throwing in as much salt as I could beg from the kitchen. I 
fell into bed each day at 6:00 a.m., smelling of men’s 
cologne. I was deliriously happy.
	Why is this city dancing? Tango was born a hundred years 
ago in Buenos Aires, its direct lineage a bit mysterious. 
The name may be derived from "tangle,"  as the couples’ legs 
seem to indeed. Tango, by its nature of leading and 
following, could only have originated in a country of 
overtly macho, strong men and responsive women. 
	There are no real "steps" in Argentine tango, but a walk 
forward, back and side. It is improvised. The man leads with 
his mind and body, and the woman follows with hers. She does 
have the choice of adding adornments and embellishments, but 
the control and responsibility are the man’s. The couple 
dance as one in a tight embrace, cheek to cheek, chest to 
chest, but their legs do different things.
	I had to learn not to avert my eyes from a man’s direct 
gaze if I wanted to dance at the Buenos Aires milongas. It 
wasn’t easy for me at first to stare at a man from across 
the room, too forward for women here in the U.S. But it is 
considered rude in Argentina for a man to approach a woman’s 
table without permission, and so a woman gives her 
permission silently with her eyes. Often that’s all that 
passes between a man and a woman before meeting on the dance 
floor, simply a look that says, let’s dance together. 
	Then after the man opens his arms and the woman walks into 
them, they hold each other wordlessly for a moment before 
beginning to dance. One of my teachers there said, "The way 
a woman walks to me when I ask her to dance tells me if it 
will be a good tango or not. And at the moment when I first 
embrace her, I know all I need to know."
	 Argentine Eduardo Arquimbau confided, "I decided when I 
was young that I had to be a good dancer so that women would 
dance with me." The pioneering dancer, choreographer and 
international stage star who gave our American group a 
Master class, continued, "I look at a woman in the street 
and compliment her and she won’t even return my gaze, but at 
a milonga I can ask her to dance with my eyes. Then I can 
hold her in a deep embrace, our breath mingling, our faces 
touching."
	American women, myself included, flock in droves to the 
romantic allure of the tango and the macho men who dance it 
in milongas all over the world. The deep embrace, which is 
the norm in Buenos Aires, both seduces and frightens us.
	We are so thrilled to be held in a close embrace and led 
strongly around the dance floor in a dance of beauty and 
passion, that sometimes we confuse the dancer with the 
dance. It is easy for many of us to fall in love with the 
dancer. However the sensuous communication and intimacy of 
the Tango is traditionally over once you leave the floor. 
Argentines know this, but Americans can be disoriented and 
befuddled after a sexually-charged dance. 
	 I saw how attractive are strong men who know where they 
are going and what they want and who never doubt 
themselves--even if they are old with missing teeth (often 
due to dance hall brawls in their youth), or are young and 
skinny boys just out of their teens.
	American men are different, a bit unsure of their place in 
the world today and what women expect from them. It's a 
cultural thing. Perhaps we American women have brought it on 
ourselves with our race to equality.
	All of this naturally in both cultures, translates to the 
dance floor--and perhaps the bedroom. 
	It’s possible that American women don't really want a 
romantic relationship with a macho man, but many are 
starving to give up control--at least for the time it takes 
to dance two or three tangos. And to be held so close that 
your breath combines and your legs tangle and you dance as 
one... well--some of us lust for that in our lives, not just 
for ten minutes. On my trip there were a lot of tears shed 
by my American traveling companions in the Ladies' Rooms of 
the tango halls. And I admit, even though I knew better, to 
having a crush on one of the teaching assistants and being 
disappointed that all he did was dance with me.
	It's more comfortable to have our personal space, to keep a 
lack of commitment that prevents our being hurt, to not 
press our breasts against the chest of a stranger who we may 
never see again and whose name is unknown.
	It takes courage for Americans to be close physically, and 
to embrace a stranger like a lover for whom we have no 
expectations.
	Holding someone "at arm's length" is a lot easier, after 
all. 
	It's just not Tango.
	Juan Bruno, another Master teacher I studied with, 
described the physiology of Tango as "the brain sending a 
message to your feet through your heart." And el corazon, 
the dominant phrase of tango song lyrics, is also the soul 
of Tango as well as the heart of its dancers.
	I learned that Tango is music, a mystique, a way of life, a 
people, not only a dance. My dancing improved after dancing 
twelve hours a day with strong leaders, and now that I’m 
back home again, I’m haunting the milongas of Los Angeles 
looking for the perfect dance experience as I found it in 
Buenos Aires. And if I also find tremendous pleasure from a 
man’s deep embrace with no strings attached, well, who can 
blame me?
	However, along with all of its other qualities, a tango

