---
title: A Day in Krakow, Poland
creation_date: '2002-10-10'
image: hut.gif
author: Danny Spitler (dispitler)
layout: post
---

I awoke in my Katowice hotel room just before my small 
travel alarm clock went off, and I showered quickly. I 
pulled on a white tee shirt, blue jeans, and walking shoes. 
Inside the pocket of a lightweight jacket I made sure that 
I had my folded one-sheet map of downtown Krakow, a 
sufficient number of Polish zolatas, and my round trip 
train ticket. I draped my sunglasses around my neck, slid 
my camera case onto my belt, and declared myself ready 
explore. 

At the hotel breakfast buffet I slammed down a glass of 
grape juice and a bowl of granola in five minutes flat. I 
grabbed an apple from the fruit basket, stuffed it in my 
jacket pocket, and started the seven-minute walk to the 
train station. When the correct train arrived I leaped 
through the door of the first class club car and settled 
into a compartment with three unoccupied seats and plenty 
of room to stretch out and relax. The train pulled away 
from Katowice, and soon I was gazing out the window at the 
green Polish countryside. 

It was 8:45 AM when we arrived at the Krakow train station. 
My light jacket was just enough to offset the mild morning 
chill as I walked through the streets to the Florianska 
Gate, built in the 15th century. This was the ceremonial 
gate through which royalty always entered into the city. I 
strolled past the huge brick walls, which were blackened by 
hundreds of centuries of exposure to the elements, and I 
stepped through the entrance into old town Krakow. 

Like most European cities Krakow doesn't start its day very 
early. Most shops and restaurants do not open until at 
least ten o'clock and I was arriving at just after nine, so 
I got to watch the city come alive. I walked past a 
McDonalds without the slightest temptation to go in. I 
hurried down the street until the huge downtown square 
opened before me. It is the kind of place that you would 
imagine if you heard the words, "European charm." 

The square itself takes up a huge city block. In the center 
of the square is a very pretty structure called Rynek 
Glowny, or Market Square.  It is not architecturally 
distinctive, but it has an arched portico, it is painted a 
mild yellow color, and it fits perfectly into the 
surroundings. The middle section of the building is 
completely open with small souvenir stands lining both 
walls. Other items in the square include an old bell tower, 
a small museum, and a large statue, where scores of young 
people gather and sit.

I spotted an old gentleman rolling a small food cart into 
the square. The contents looked like a cross between a 
pretzel and a bagel. I approached and pointed to one of the 
rolls. He handed me the roll and told me the price. Not 
understanding what he said I held out a palm full of change 
and he picked out the equivalent of about a quarter. I sat 
on a bench, munched on my obwarzanki, and watched the early 
activity on the square. 

I watched two horse drawn carriages pull into place 
alongside the square preparing to offer romantic carriage 
rides. I watched as waiters wearing crisp white aprons 
began opening the umbrellas over several sidewalk tables. 
Artists began arriving and setting up stands where they 
would display their watercolors and pencil sketches. Next 
came the flowers. Soon several flower stands began to 
appear with a dazzling array of roses, daisies, tulips, 
sunflowers, and numerous other varieties. Even a few 
pigeons began to appear, arriving from wherever it is that 
pigeons spend the night. 

After an hour of simply sitting and watching the scene I 
decided it was time to begin my sight seeing and I headed 
for Waled Castle. The castle dates back to the 10th century 
and has been destroyed and rebuilt several times, so there 
are parts of it from many different centuries. I purchased 
tickets for two different tours. The first took me through 
the treasury and the armory. The armory, which was a large 
display of weapons, was the most impressive. It is amazing 
to see that, throughout the ages, there has never been any 
shortage of creative ways for us to kill one another. 

My second tour consisted of an hour of wandering through 
various rooms of the palace while viewing centuries old 
furniture, utensils, tapestries, and paintings. I also 
visited the cathedral, which holds the tombs of numerous 
Polish kings and bishops, and I wandered through the 
cathedral museum. So, if asked how I spent my morning, I 
would have to say that I spent it looking at "old stuff."

On my walk back to the city I wandered slowly through the 
narrow streets just enjoying the ambiance of this old 
section of Krakow. I had begun to have thoughts of lunch 
when I spotted a line of people in front of a street 
vendor. On an impulse I jumped in line. As I looked over 
the shoulders of the others in line I saw a sign 
advertising Keebabs. I watched one of the concoctions being 
thrown together and decided "what the heck." When I reached 
the front of the line I held up one finger and pointed at 
the sign. I handed over the correct change and watched the 
guy behind the counter grab a potato pancake off of a 
toaster and split it sort of like a pita pocket. He tossed 
in some green cabbage and a spatula full of beef. He then 
tossed on a big spoonful of what looked like a creamy salad 
dressing. He looked at me and said something that sounded 
like a question. When he saw my blank expression he 
switched to English and asked, "you want spice?" I 
nodded "yes" and he slathered something red over the top 
and thrust the finished product into my hands. I carried my 
Keebab to the square where I bought a Pepsi and found a 
shaded stair step to sit on while I enjoyed my Polish fast 
food. 

My map indicated a museum a couple of blocks off the 
square, and since I still had several hours before the last 
train back to Katowice I decided to check it out. I located 
the discreet museum entrance and once inside I climbed the 
stairs to the second story, paid the small entrance fee and 
started through. I passed through several rooms full 
of "old stuff" and I found that, despite its modest 
exterior the museum was very extensive with a number of 
galleries. I stepped into one room that featured only one 
painting. I thought to myself, "Hmmm, I wonder why this one 
has a room to itself?" I sat on the bench in front of the 
painting and stared at it for a moment. It was a portrait 
of a young woman holding a white ermine, and it appeared to 
be quite an old painting. Then I noticed a small brass 
stand with the painter's name. I slipped on my reading 
glasses and read the name Leonardo da Vinci. Question 
asked, question answered. 

In 1994 I managed to stand on tiptoes and got a glimpse of 
the Mona Lisa in a crushing crowd at the Louve in Paris, so 
it felt strange to be standing alone in front of an 
original painting by the great master. It was certainly an 
event that I never expected to occur in an obscure museum 
in Krakow, Poland. I finally moved into the next room where 
another painting was prominently featured. I immediately 
looked for the artist name and discovered that I was now 
standing in front of an original landscape by a guy named 
Rembrant. I made a point of walking slowly through the rest 
of the gallery. 

I spent my last hour in Krakow gravitating back to the City 
Square with its artists, flowers, restaurants, carriages, 
food stands, pigeons, and people. With great reluctance I 
finally started my walk back to the train station. It was 
only when I was seated on the train moving away from the 
city did it occur to me that within a few miles of this 
beautiful peaceful city was a place I visited three years 
earlier: the Nazi death camp at Auschwitz. The contrast was 
almost too much to comprehend. 





