---
title: Two Days in St. Petersburg
creation_date: '2002-10-10'
image: tower.gif
author: Danny Spitler (dispitler)
layout: post
---

Russia continues to be more restrictive on its tourists 
than other European countries.  In order to enter Russia 
you must secure a visa from a Russian Consulate in the 
United States, costing $60 each.  The visa was waived if 
you signed up with one of the ship’s tours and would not be 
moving around on your own.  We had read that it was not 
very easy to get around on your own and taxi service was 
spotty at best, so we spent the big bucks and signed up for 
a full two-day tour.  

We disembarked the Brilliance of the Seas to the sound of a 
three-piece Russian band playing American show tunes.  We 
were required to clear Russian immigration by showing our 
passports and proving that we had a tour ticket before 
being allowed to head for our buses.  Believe it or not our 
guide’s name was Natasha. 

Our first stop was several miles outside the city at the 
Peterhof Grand Palace, the summer palace of Peter the Great 
and subsequent Czars and Czarinas. On the trip out of the 
city Natasha pointed out a monument that marks the place 
where the Germans were stopped on their invasion of the 
city (called Leningrad back then).  The German army 
surrounded and laid siege to the city for over 900 days, 
but they were never able to capture the city itself.  This 
horrible period, when a large part of the population was 
killed by war or starvation, seems to define much of what 
the city and its people are all about.  

Peterhof, like most of the palaces outside the city, was 
heavily damaged during the war, but the artwork and most of 
the smaller furnishings were transported into the city 
prior to the arrival of the German army.  Most of these 
treasures were stored in the immense basement of the St. 
Isaac’s Cathedral and have been returned to the palace as 
it has been restored.  When we arrived we were dismayed to 
see a long line of tourists in front of us.  Apparently the 
other cruise ships had gotten the jump on us.  The line 
moved along fairly quickly, but it was almost an hour 
before we made it to the entrance.  That was plenty of time 
for the vendors to work us over pretty good as they moved 
up and down the line selling post cards, military hats and 
pins, nesting dolls and all kinds of other cheap 
souvenirs.  The prices seemed really reasonable, and all 
the prices were quoted in dollars.  We quickly learned that 
no one was the least bit interested in rubles if there were 
dollars to be had.

As we moved through the ornately decorated rooms of the 
palace we were reminded of Versailles.  This was also true 
when we exited into the huge gardens filled with dozens of 
large fountains and water features.  The Russian royalty, 
like their European counterparts, knew how to live well.  

We took a long walk through the gardens and down to the 
Baltic Sea where we were loaded onto a hydrofoil for a fast 
dash across the inlet and back to the Neva River and into 
the heart of St. Petersburg.  We were bused to the Nevskij 
Palace Hotel for a lunch of beef stroganoff, and we were 
entertained by a group of young musicians and singers 
dressed in traditional Russian outfits and performing 
Russian folk songs and dances.  Well, it was traditional 
until they broke into a tongue and cheek rendition of “Back 
in the USSR.”

After lunch we toured two of the more impressive churches 
in the city.  The first was the Church of the Spilled 
Blood.  This very ornate and very typically Russian 
Orthodox church was built on the site where Czar Alexander 
II was assassinated by a terrorist bomb in 1881.  It was 
closed by Stalin in the 1930s and was used as a warehouse, 
but it has been meticulously restored and is filled with 
floor to ceiling mosaics, pink Italian marble, and an alter 
filled with semi-precious stones supported by four jasper 
columns.  It is very extravagant. 

Next we visited St. Isaac’s Cathedral.  This is a huge 
church built more in a European architecture.  It took 
forty years to build and was consecrated in 1858.  The 
interior is lavishly decorated with huge pieces of carved 
Russian malachite, marble, lazulite and other precious and 
semi-precious stones and minerals.  The dome is gold gilded 
and is said to have consumed 220 pounds of gold.  At 
today’s prices I think that is about 1.5 million dollars 
worth of gold paint.  The dome is the fourth largest in the 
world behind St. Peter’s in Rome, the Dumo in Florence, and 
St. Paul’s in London.  Pam and I have visited the first two 
and we were scheduled to see St. Paul’s when we returned to 
London.  Unfortunately I have only climbed to the top of 
the Dumo in Florence and Natasha wasn’t about to hold up 
the tour for an hour and let me climb to the top of St. 
Isaac’s. 

We returned to the ship to relax for a while.  I couldn’t 
stand not knowing what was happening with the Diamondbacks 
so I paid seven dollars for an internet connection only to 
find out they had dropped seven out of their last nine 
games, but they were still in first place.  We went to 
dinner but skipped the show so that we could get to bed 
early.  We wanted to be wide-awake for our second day of 
touring in St. Petersburg. 

We were up at 6:45 for breakfast and were off the ship 
thirty minutes early to get through the immigration lines.  
We were the first ones to our bus so we got the front seats 
and a chance to visit with Natasha.  She has traveled 
around the world, but says she has no desire to live 
somewhere else.  She genuinely seemed to feel passionately 
about her city and her desire to share it with others.  
Throughout both days of touring she spoke non-stop about 
everything we were passing, seeing, or smelling.  She never 
referred to a note and was never at a loss for an answer to 
any question.  Some of the group privately complained that 
she gave us way too much information, but we liked it and 
tried to soak up every word.  

The high point of our trip was St. Petersburg, but the high 
point of St. Petersburg was the Hermitage Museum.  Rivaling 
the Louvre in Paris as a virtual treasure trove the 
Hermitage is housed in a series of buildings that include 
the opulent Winter Palace of the Czars.  The architecture 
of the building, along with the huge rooms and staircases, 
is a museum in itself, but the collection of art is just 
amazing.  We were told that the collection includes 
millions of items.  You could spend one minute on each item 
in the Hermitage collection and you would still need many 
years to see it all.  Needless to say our three-hour tour 
was only going to hit the highlights.  

To our delight we were the first bus to arrive and Natasha 
made sure we were waiting on the front steps prior to the 
Museum opening at 9:00.  As we waited on the sidewalk we 
were serenaded by a two-man band playing some non-Russian 
music.  Their repertoire included The Star Spangled Banner, 
God Bless America, Dixieland, California Here I Come, 
Anchors Away, and The Eyes of Texas.  Obviously they earned 
some tips.  

When the doors finally opened Natasha pushed us along 
giving us just enough time to see things but keeping us 
from being overtaken by the groups behind us.  For the 
first hour it felt very much like a private tour, which we 
enjoyed immensely.  Of the twelve known paintings by 
Leonardo da Vinci two are in the Hermitage, and we spent a 
few minutes with each of them thrilled that we could stand 
close enough to pick up the brush strokes.  Before our tour 
was over we were able to do the same with dozens of 
original paintings by Van Gough, Raphael, Rubens, Van Dyck, 
Degas, Renoir, Monet, Matisse, Gauguin, and Rembrandt.  In 
fact there was a large room filled with originals by 
Rembrandt.  

I have never been much of an art connoisseur.  I am 
generally less impressed with the art itself as with its 
historical significance and, I might add, with the prices 
that someone would be willing to pay for some of it.  
However, Natasha led us to her favorite Rembrandt and 
explained what the painting said to her.  It was a large 
painting of the Prodigal Son kneeling at the foot of his 
father.  The story is one that I have heard dozens of times 
growing up in Sunday School.  As I looked deeply at the 
painting and listened to Natasha’s description I began to 
see what she was able to see.  The face of the father, who 
is meant to represent God, is filled with the glow of love 
for his son.  The son traveled some wrong roads and made 
some really bad decisions, yet the father’s face is filled 
with love, and forgiveness, and joy that his son has come 
home.  

As I stared into the eyes of Rembrandt’s father figure my 
own eyes began to water, and for a moment I realized how a 
piece of art can really speak to the soul.  I remained 
transfixed for several minutes after my group had moved 
on.  Then I wiped my eyes and hustled to catch up.  There 
was a Michelangelo sculpture waiting ahead. 

After eating salmon and borsch soup at a local restaurant 
we were dropped at the Babushka gift shop to spend some of 
those much needed dollars.  Then we toured the Peter and 
Paul Fortress.  Many of the Czars and their families are 
entombed in the small cathedral on the grounds of the 
fortress.  To wrap up our day we boarded a boat for a 
leisurely cruise up and down the Neva River.  Natasha spoke 
non-stop for the next two hours giving us the history of 
every building, bridge, and park we passed as a waiter 
brought us champagne and caviar canapés.  

We were exhausted by the time we returned to the ship, but 
we hated to leave knowing that there was so much of St. 
Petersburg that we had left unseen.  We tipped Natasha 
generously and hoped that we could return someday and let 
her show us much more of her beautiful city.             


