---
title: A Visit to Montmartre in Paris
creation_date: '2002-10-10'
layout: post
---

When we emerged from the subway and entered the street 
scene we understood exactly what she had meant.  We were in 
a bustling, working class neighborhood filled with a myriad 
of people of varying nationalities.  Obviously a melting 
pot neighborhood.  We also quickly decided that it was 
the “outlet mall” district of Paris.  Retail stores filled 
the bottom floors of all the buildings and their goods 
overflowed onto the sidewalks. 

The walk down the crowded sidewalk was an interesting 
challenge because we were competing for space with tables 
loaded with goods, salesmen hawking their products, 
shoppers picking through the selection of goods, and plenty 
of people just trying to use the sidewalk to get from point 
A to point B.  I was beginning to get the same 
claustrophobic feeling I had in the Spice Markets of 
Istanbul when Pam spotted a bargain.  There in front of a 
woman’s clothing store was a rack of tailored pants suits.  
The suits were nicely lined, good quality and very 
stylish.  We did the conversion from francs into dollars 
and calculated that the price was just under $30.  Of 
course we had not taken the time to figure out the European 
sizing.  A very harried salesman was waving his arms at 
another couple of shoppers and telling them in no uncertain 
terms to take their business elsewhere.  He turned to us 
with a frustrated expression and said, “Russians, they are 
impossible.”  We wondered what he thought of Americans.  

He was a tall handsome Spaniard who spoke a little English 
and Pam let him know that she wasn’t sure what size she 
would wear.  He looked her up and down (a little too 
admiringly in my opinion) and grab a size 40 off the rack.  
She slipped into the jacket and it fit perfectly.  She 
asked where she could try on the pants and he gave her a 
look that seemed to say, “Come on lady you are getting a 
$200 suit for thirty bucks and you want to try it on?  Give 
me a break here.”  She settled for holding the pants 
against her waist and hoping for a good fit.  She picked 
out a pale blue and a dark blue, paid the tab, and we dove 
back into the sidewalk frenzy.  Of course I now had to deal 
with the idea that I’m in love with a woman who wears a 
size 40. 

We found the side street leading up to the cathedral and 
walked to the base of the mountain where our subway passes 
were good for a funicular which would carry us up the 
steepest part of the hill to the cathedral.  The cathedral 
has a curious architectural style, which the guidebook 
calls a mixture of Romanesque and Byzantine.  It is 
gleaming white with one tall dome and four smaller domes.  
The interior was typically impressive, but I was anxious to 
see if there was a stairway to the top of the dome.  

I can tell that Pam still isn’t too sure about this growing 
obsession for climbing to the top of cathedrals.  However, 
she just rolled her eyes with acceptance as she has done 
with my uncontrollable desire to change lanes and my need 
to grab the remote control and check out the other eighty 
TV stations during a two-minute commercial break in the 
movie we are watching.  

I guess that the Catholics have discovered that there is 
money to be made from those of us with these masochistic 
tendencies, so there is usually a tab to pay to abuse your 
legs on the churches’ narrow spiraling staircases.  I paid 
the required number of francs and began my assault on the 
293 steps.  The spiral staircase was so narrow in places 
that I felt like the point of a corkscrew working my way 
through the cork of a wine bottle; however, arrival at the 
very top provided a wonderful reward for my effort.  Once 
again Paris was laid out before me, and this time the sight 
of the Eiffel Tower was included in the view.  It was a 
partially sunny day so parts of the city were in the 
shadows of fluffy white clouds, while other parts were 
basking in bright sunlight.  It was a very nice effect.     

It was approaching lunchtime when I reconnected with Pam 
and we rode the funicular back down to the street below the 
cathedral grounds.  The first place we saw on the street 
was a tiny crepe shop with three tables, one of which was 
vacant.  We sat down next to a large family who was 
vacationing in Paris from Mexico City.  There was mom and 
dad, mom’s sister, grandma and grandpa, and two small 
children, and they were a happy group of tourists.  The 
owner of the crepe shop was from India and he was a 
gregarious and entertaining host to his customers.  We 
ordered a sandwich for lunch and had him make us a 
delicious strawberry crepe for dessert.  After loading up 
with a few more souvenirs we made our way back to our hotel 
to deposit all of our goodies before striking out on our 
afternoon tour. 

We headed for the Les Invalides.  This is a vast complex of 
buildings, which was originally built as a home for old and 
invalid soldiers.  Since the French royalty enjoyed 
fighting wars as much as they enjoyed building palaces they 
had more than their fair share of old soldiers.  Also on 
the grounds is a spectacular domed cathedral, which houses 
the tomb of Napoleon Bonaparte.  I decided that I should 
pay homage to Napoleon since we have so much in common.  
Just like me the guy was short and he was well traveled.  
The only difference is that, when he traveled, he took 
along a huge army.  I just take along a beautiful blond.  
The building complex that housed all of the old soldiers is 
now a large military museum.  We picked out some exhibits 
that were of particular interest and spent the rest of the 
afternoon on French military history, including an 
excellent section on World War II.  

We did a little more walking before catching the subway 
back to the hotel where we embarked on another quest for an 
interesting restaurant.  We were sufficiently indecisive 
until we stumbled into another sidewalk crepe shop where we 
relaxed, munched a ham and cheese crepe and watched the 
sidewalk scene.  We asked the cook if there was a pastry 
shop nearby and he said there was one right down the street 
but it closed at 8:00.  My watch was reading 7:59 so we 
dashed down the street and found it just as they were 
locking the doors.  The sales girl let us in and we pointed 
to a couple of delicious looking fruit pastries and a small 
loaf of French bread.  

We were ready for an early night.  It was still daylight 
when we adjourned to our small French hotel room.  We 
opened the window and listened to the street noises drift 
up to our seventh floor room.  We enjoyed the flaky crust 
with peach filling, we made love, and then we drifted off 
to sleep.  

It was our last night in Paris.  



