---
title: Romantic Prague
creation_date: '2002-10-10'
author: Danny Spitler (dispitler)
layout: post
---

I had hoped to be able to get to the hotel from the train 
station using the subway system and my two-year-old memory 
of the streets of Prague.  I found the right subway stop, 
but took a wrong turn on one of the streets and discovered 
that I was lost.  Czech taxi drivers can be pretty 
mercenary to tourists, but we were tired from our all night 
train ride and ready to unpack, so I hailed a cab and 
showed him the address to the hotel, which I was certain 
was only a few blocks away.  Sure enough, he took us on 
creative route, and managed to run up ten dollars on the 
meter.  I am sure that a direct route would have costs us 
half that much.  

The hotel turned out to be charming.  It had only been 
completed for about six months although it was housed in a 
building that dated from the 14th century. Our room was on 
the third floor, which had a nice view, but there was no 
elevator so we got to know the stairway pretty well over 
the next three days.  I took Pam by the hand and led her 
downstairs and around the corner to show her the most 
beautiful town square that I have found in all my travels.  
She took a slow 360-degree turn and agreed with my 
assessment. 

Upon returning to the hotel I made arrangements for a cab 
ride to the Grand Palace.  I had the hotel negotiate a set 
rate for the short trip across the Vltava River and up the 
hill to the entrance of this extensive palace whose first 
buildings date back to the 10th century.  For the next few 
hours we toured through the ancient St. George Basilica and 
the Vladislav Assembly Hall where riders on horseback had 
ridden into the hall during mid-evil days and where many 
historic events in Czech history had taken place.  We also 
visited the enormous St. Vitus Cathedral, which is one of 
the most impressive cathedrals in all of Europe.  The 325 
steps to the top of the cathedral were tempting, but I had 
made that climb two years earlier and we had a long day of 
walking yet ahead of us. 

At the walls of the palace you can get a fantastic overview 
of the whole city of Prague and there were several members 
of a tour group standing at the wall with us and looking 
out at the beautiful view.  There was also three fairly 
well dressed, middle-aged women circulating near all the 
tourists.  The group's tour guide called for everyone's 
attention by announcing, "Ladies and gentlemen, may I have 
your attention.  Please notice the three ladies standing 
here," and he pointed to the three middle-aged 
ladies.  "These are gypsies," he announced matter-of-
factly, "and they are here to rob you."  He then switched 
to the Czech language and angrily told the three gypsy 
ladies to get away from his tour group.  They moved away 
giving the tour director looks that could kill and a couple 
of hand gestures that most anyone could have interpreted.   
Most tour books warn that Prague has some of the most 
talented pickpockets in all of Europe. 

We wandered along a narrow street near the back of the 
Palace complex called the Golden Lane.  It got its name 
from the period when goldsmiths used to do their work in 
the area, but for some reason, the apartments where they 
worked and lived were very small.  Later the little rooms 
were used as soldiers' barracks.  Now they are filled with 
retail shops, but I think that anyone over 5' 7" would have 
a difficult time as a clerk.  

After leaving the palace we walked through a section of 
town called the Lesser Quarter and visited the very ornate 
St. Nichols cathedral with its distinctive turquoise dome.  
Then we worked our way slowly back toward the Vltava River 
for a walk across the famous, old Charles Bridge.  The 
bridge was built in the 12th century.  It is lined with 
large statues and there are large mid-evil towers on both 
sides of the bridge.  It is used only for pedestrian 
traffic and, with the Grand Palace and St. Nichols 
Cathedral on one side and a view of some of Prague's famous 
buildings on the other side, it is certainly one of the 
most beautiful and romantic bridges anywhere in the world.  
There are usually several artists painting and selling 
their wares along the bridge as well as one or two 
musicians playing romantic songs in exchange of tips.  Like 
the Old Town Square the Charles Bridge is a point in the 
city that keeps drawing you back.  Before our weekend was 
over we took many walks across the Charles Bridge, holding 
hands and relishing the experience.  

After crossing the bridge our route back to the square took 
us through a narrow pedestrian walkway lined with shops.  I 
remembered that this was the area where I had purchased a 
gift for Pam on my visit two and half years earlier.  As we 
passed the tiny jewelry shop I recognized it immediately.  
I also remembered that I had dealt with a very nice female 
sales clerk who spoke good English.  I asked the girl 
behind the counter how long she had worked there and she 
said she had been there for at least three years so I was 
sure that she was the same one.  My purchase back in 1999 
had been a gold bracelet filled with red garnet stones.  
Pam quickly found a pair of red garnet earrings to give to 
her mother, and after some looking we were able to find a 
pair of earrings for Pam that just happen to be a perfect 
match for her bracelet.  My purchase pleased both Pam and 
the sales clerk, which just goes to show that on rare 
occasions I can make two women happy at the same time.  

We opted for dinner in the small restaurant on the ground 
floor of our hotel and ordered some traditional Czech 
dishes, which were tasty and filling.  By the time we 
finished dinner and made the climb to the third floor to 
deposit our purchases it was dark and time to walk back to 
the Charles Bridge for a night view.  On one side of the 
bridge you can look up to the Grand Palace and the spires 
of St. Vitus Cathedral which are bathed in spotlights.  The 
dome of St. Nichols is also brightly illuminated.  Looking 
back to the other side is Prague's city center with its 
brightly lit 17th century symphony building, the National 
Theater building, and the domes of numerous old 
cathedrals.  The bright city lights reflect off the waters 
of the river below.  There are boats cruising the river 
with strings of white lights lining their decks.  There are 
pleasant scents of good food wafting up from the sidewalk 
cafes, and usually a street musician playing soft music on 
a violin.  If you have the tiniest bit of romance in your 
soul it will certainly bubble to the surface as you stroll 
along the Charles Bridge in the beautiful city of 
Prague.    


