---
title: Water Festival in Bangkok
creation_date: '2002-05-26'
author: Danny Spitler (dispitler)
layout: post
---

There is something about landing at Bangkok Airport that is 
special…..at least to the male members of our family.  This 
was the country where, twenty years ago, we negotiated and 
landed our first large international contract.  During the 
ensuing several years much our professional energy, 
frustration, and joy was centered around this exotic 
country a half a world away.  Over a three-year period we 
drilled two hundred water wells, installed pumps and 
underground pipelines, and delivered the first year-round 
water supply to a group of Thai villages that can now grow 
three crops a year instead of just one. 

While I had made only one trip to Thailand during that 
period, Dad had taken many trips and had stayed for weeks 
on end during the contract negotiations with the upper 
levels of the government.  Younger brother, Dee, moved to 
Bangkok after the project was well under way and stayed 
through the successful completion of a project that we have 
always considered to be the crown jewel of our many 
entrepreneurial endeavors.  Now twenty years later, after 
delivering underground water to this country, we were 
arriving just in time to celebrate Song Kron, the annual 
water festival.

As our Singapore Airlines 747 touched down Dee and I 
breathed a sigh of relief.  We had just finished off a 
stressful week of work in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.  Going from 
Saudi Arabia to Thailand is like slipping out of a three-
piece suit and tight shoes and into a soft cotton tee shirt 
and sandals.  It was time to relax and reconnect with old 
friends and old memories.  We had talked Dad into joining 
us in Thailand and his flight from the states was scheduled 
to arrive a few hours behind ours.  

Our project manager back in the old days had been a big 
Texan named Larry.  During his stay, he fell in love with 
Thailand and had eventually found a way to get back to 
the “land of smiles.”  We hadn’t seen Larry for many years, 
and we were looking forward to a reunion with him and some 
of our former Thai associates, all of whom promised to be 
waiting for us at one of old watering holes in the Pat Pong 
nightclub district.     

Since our last trip, several miles of a new elevated toll 
road had been completed, and we made it to our hotel in 
less than an hour, which was a new record.  Our pal Larry 
was waiting for us at the hotel and helped us get checked 
in using the special rate that he had negotiated for us.   
Dad arrived on his Korean Airlines flight about two hours 
after us, and he also made it to the hotel in record time.  
We visited with Larry and a few of the expatriates that we 
have met and gotten to know in previous trips.  The bars 
and restaurants in the area were in the process of covering 
with plastic anything and everything that needs to stay 
dry.  The reason......Saturday and Sunday was the Thai new 
year and everyone was gearing up for the annual Song Kron 
celebration.  

Dee had done his best to plan our schedule so that we could 
be in Bangkok for Song Kron.  He had been through one 
celebration back in the early 80’s and assured me that I 
would not believe it unless I saw it for myself.   Friday 
night found the ex-pats plotting strategy for the following 
day like it was the D-Day invasion.  Our commanding leaders 
were Mark and Ian.  Mark is an American who is six foot 
tall and weighs close to 280.  Ian is an Australian and 
slightly smaller.  Both have lived here for many years.  
They had already collected several weapons, the principle 
one reminded me of a WW II flame thrower.  Mark had 
arranged for this weapon of destruction.  It contained a 5-
gallon container, which he could strap to his back like a 
backpack with a hose leading to a pump tube and nozzle.  
With one quick pumping motion Mark could send a large 
stream of water spewing onto a target thirty feet away.  
Ian had acquired several squirt guns, but “squirt” is 
hardly a descriptive word.   Water Cannons is more 
appropriate.  Dee and Larry and I pooled our money and sent 
Dee out into the open market to find an arms dealer who 
could equip us with the latest in high tech weaponry.  He 
returned with a couple of machine gun looking affairs and a 
water bazooka.  At noon on Saturday, we dressed for 
combat......old shorts and tee shirts, which could never be 
worn again, and aqua sport slippers, which holds a grip 
while soaking wet.  

After extensive reconnaissance Mark and Ian had already 
decided where we would locate our base of operations.  They 
chose a small open air bar about fifty yards from the hotel 
entrance.  From this position we were able to conceal 
ourselves behind the wall of the Chicken Delight 
restaurant, where we were hidden to oncoming traffic.  
There was a faucet close by to refuel when the ammo got 
low, and there was a three-foot wall to duck behind if we 
began taking too much incoming fire.  We negotiated a truce 
with the troops in the open-air bar across the street, and 
then we were assigned our positions and battle 
responsibilities.  

Our weakest point of exposure was from the sidewalk behind 
us.  Enemy troops could use a flanking action and attack us 
from the rear via the sidewalk, so Larry and I were 
assigned to cover the rear of the battle group by parking 
ourselves on the barstools closest to the sidewalk.  From 
this position we were to try and intercept snipers and 
suicide bombers who might try to attack us from the rear.  
We were both armed with machine guns plus a small pistol to 
use during the 20-second reloads.  Dee was assigned to 
various guerrilla activities and was available to support 
Mark and Ian on the forward lines in case of heavy face to 
face combat with incoming tanks (pickup trucks with barrels 
in the back and several people with buckets).   Mark and 
Ian added some spice by purchasing several large bags of 
ice to give our ammunition a little extra bite.  With our 
sophisticated weapons we expected to be able to hold off 
any assaults with more traditional style arms like buckets, 
large plastic glasses, and water balloons.  The problem is 
to avoid those dedicated members of the enemy who insist on 
using chemical warfare (talcum powder mixed with water that 
gets smeared onto your face and hair). 

The battle plan was to hold our position as long as 
possible while annihilating anyone unfortunate enough to 
enter our killing zone (motorcycle riders, pickup trucks, 
casual pedestrians).  We had hoped to be able to hold this 
position for a couple of hours and then advance to the 
entrance of the Cosmos Restaurant (home turf) and set up a 
defensive perimeter around the entrance.  The battle began 
in earnest about 1:30.  Our first ambushes were 
masterpieces.  The first group of motorcycle riders never 
knew what hit them as they wandered down the narrow street 
right into our sights.  At point blank range Ian and Mark 
opened up with the water bazooka and the icy flame 
thrower.  After wiping out numerous enemy troops we began 
to take some hits from the rear and Larry and I had our 
hands full fending off these attacks.  Both of us were 
bloodied with talcum powder by troops pretending to be 
friendlies until we turned our backs, only to be smeared 
with the gooey white paste.  The most frenzied action would 
occur when the pickup trucks would try to penetrate our 
defenses.  They would drive straight into our killing zone 
and try to match us in fierce face to face combat, but, 
with all of us stepping up to the wall and aiming the icy 
ammo at their face and eyes, we were always able to outlast 
them, although we sometimes took heavy casualties.  I was 
the first to take a serious hit when I took a round of 
incoming laced with yellow dye.  This is against the Geneva 
Convention’s rules of water warfare, but in war these 
things do happen.

Bloodied and battle weary after two hours, we decided to 
move our base camp to the entrance of the Cosmos.  We tried 
to determine when the coast was reasonably clear and 
started our advance.  Mark, large target that he is, did 
not hear my warning in time and took a direct water balloon 
hit from an upstairs balcony.  We all returned fire and 
covered him as he limped to safety.  We located some allies 
positioned on an overhead cross walk.  They were equipped 
with water balloons and a garden hose.  Together we set up 
a deadly killing field in front of the Cosmos.  We were the 
ground troops and they gave us plenty of air support from 
above.  

At the end of another couple of hours we declared victory 
and headed soggily back to our rooms to take warm showers 
and find more disposable clothing for the party Saturday 
night.  Randy, another American ex-pat, owns one of the 
local bars and had invited us all for a Saturday night Song 
Kron party.  The party was similar to New Year’s Eve in the 
states except that no one went home dry.  Randy had his 
stereo equipment and DJ enclosed in plastic, and of course 
the cashiers’ operated under a clear plastic canopy.  
Drinks were served with plastic bags over the glasses with 
a hole punched for a straw.  I don’t know what the water 
bill is in Thailand for this festival, but I am glad that 
it is celebrated at the beginning of the rainy season so 
that they can replenish the city’s water supply. 

As the party began to wind down, which occurred sometime 
prior to daylight, Dad, Dee and I were all glad that our 
hotel was within walking distance.  We were glad that we 
had gotten to participate in this most unique and happy 
celebration.  We were glad to be together and surrounded by 
old friends, and we were especially glad to be back in 
the “land of smiles.”   




