---
title: The Great Wall
creation_date: '2002-07-06'
layout: post
---

I could hardly contain my anticipation for Monday's tour.  
There were a couple of stops scheduled along the way, but 
the day's bus ride was going to conclude at The Great Wall 
of China. I was fairly sure that this would the highlight 
of the trip for me. 

We fought our way through the Beijing Monday morning rush 
hour to the outskirts of the city where we made the 
mandatory factory stop.  The Chinese guides are required to 
take us through a number of factories with an accompanying 
store where we are always given ample time to be separated 
from as much of our yuan (Chinese currency) as possible.   
This stop was at a Jade factory.  The factory was strictly 
for show as the retail part of the building was 30 times 
larger than the tiny factory, and you were a bit 
overwhelmed by the sheer number of Jade figurines.  They 
ranged from tiny little jade figures to huge complex pieces 
of ocean going ships carved in intricate detail.   

This was our first exposure to the Chinese retail sales 
philosophy.  If you expressed the slightest interest in an 
item you would immediately find yourself approached by a 
tiny, fresh-faced sales girl.  She would bow respectfully 
and say; "You like?"  If you made the mistake of asking how 
much the item cost then this petite little salesgirl 
suddenly transformed into the toughest used car salesmen 
that you could ever imagine.   I have bargained in Mexico 
and Thailand, but the Chinese have taken the process to a 
whole new level.  After 45 minutes of Jade overkill we all 
stumbled back to the bus lugging our packages and feeling 
like a bunch of shorn sheep. 

Our next stop was the Ming Tombs, which included a stroll 
up the Sacred Walk.  This is a quarter mile sidewalk lined 
with gardens and trees.  It is guarded along the way by 
dozens of large statues of lions, camels, and elephants, 
followed by statues of soldiers.  The funeral processions 
started in Beijing and finished at the Sacred Walk, which 
led to the entrance of the tombs.  From the entrance there 
was still a short drive to one of the actual tombs all of 
which were placed at the base of a mountain range.  Each 
tomb is actually a small city of buildings and gardens, and 
the emperors' coffins were buried deep within the 
mountain.  Those who placed the coffin were then killed so 
no one knew how to find it.  How is that for a severance 
package?   

We only visited one of the tombs where we viewed some 
relics.  Some of the displays were reproductions since the 
originals were destroyed by Red Guards during the Cultural 
Revolution.  We learned that many treasures of ancient 
China were destroyed during this period.  Our guide tried 
to be subtle, but I could tell that he was disgusted by 
what had been done by these government sanctioned marauders 
during the 70's. 

About 45 minutes after leaving the Ming Tombs we caught our 
first glimpse of the Wall.  Just looking out the bus window 
at a small section high above on the ridge of a mountain 
sent a shiver up my spine.  For the next several miles we 
could see sections of this amazing structure snaking around 
the tops of the mountains.  Jon Jin gave us a running 
commentary about the history of the wall as we anxiously 
awaited the opportunity to jump off the bus and stand on 
it. 

It was 2:30 when we arrived at the most popular tourist 
spot along the wall.  This is the place where Nixon had 
visited on his historic trip in 1972 followed by a whole 
array of other dignitaries in the ensuing years.  We fought 
our way through the souvenir stands and handed our tickets 
to the guard at the gate.  As I placed my Nike hiking boot 
on the first set of steps another shiver climbed up my 
spine, and I practically leaped up a flight of stairs to 
the first view point.

I was standing on the wall looking up at the most 
photographed section.  It was at least a mile and a half to 
the uppermost point and there were many sections that 
looked like they were practically a straight up climb.  I 
was looking at well over 1000 steps, and a significant 
change in elevation.  I took several deep breaths and 
prayed that the last eight weeks of weight training, stair 
climbing, and treadmilling were going to be sufficient.   
It was almost 3:00, and we had been told to be back at the 
bus at 4:15.  I was standing next to Don and Marie.  Don 
appeared to be in pretty good shape and was staring at the 
wall with a determined look.  I had bumped into Marie both 
mornings in the weight room and she seemed to know her way 
around the equipment.  The rest of the group was milling 
around the landing taking photos and gaping at the amazing 
structure stretching endlessly across the mountaintops. 

Don and I attacked the first set of steps at a quick pace, 
and we didn't stop climbing for the first 150 steps.  By 
the first landing my calves were screaming at me and the 
first beads of sweat were starting to drop off my forehead 
and down the middle of my back.  Less than a minute behind 
us Marie arrived red-faced but looking determined.  As soon 
as the leg pain subsided we took on the next flight.  There 
were plenty of other tourists on the wall, but it was wide 
enough to accommodate all the walkers without slowing us 
down.  

With each increase in elevation the views changed and 
additional photo ops appeared.  While catching our breath 
on one of the landings Brad and Chris struggled into view.  
I was impressed that Chris was pushing herself so hard 
after hearing the story earlier about her thirteen knee 
operations.  We all began pushing each other to keep going 
and eventually we arrived at what appeared to be the last 
major set of stairs.  These were formidable.  There were 
over 60 steps, all very steep.  In fact, they appeared 
almost vertical.  Descending walkers were coming down 
slowly and hanging onto the guardrails.   

All of our shirts were soaked with sweat and the legs ached 
terribly, but there was no thought whatsoever of quitting.  
I asked Marie how she was doing.   She replied that she was 
tired, but then added, "I didn't come half way around the 
world to wimp out now."  I began humming the theme song 
from Rocky, and we began the final climb trying to blank 
out the pain with the thrill of where we were and what we 
were accomplishing.  Don reached the top a few steps ahead 
of me and Marie was less than a minute behind.  Brad and 
Chris along with Dale and Janet arrived a few minutes 
later, and we all hammed it up for Brad's video camera.  
Soon we were surrounded by Chinese who wanted their picture 
taken with the sweaty Americans, especially Chris with her 
blond hair and blue eyes.  

From this uppermost part of the wall we could see 
spectacular views in all directions especially to our right 
side where we could see the wall continue to snake its way 
across miles of mountain ridges.  There was also the view 
downward back to where we had just climbed.  After plenty 
of pictures and several minutes of exhilarated exhaustion 
we knew we needed start back down.  With regretful 
resignation we started down, determined to continue and 
relish the experience all the way back to the waiting bus.  

After our Great Wall experience we were all ready for an 
early night, plus there was packing to be done.  We hit the 
hotel buffet, where I reminded the group of the "foreign 
county buffet rule."  The rule states that if you are at a 
buffet in a foreign country you are only to take on your 
plate those items with which you are totally unfamiliar.  
In other words, if you know what it is you aren't allowed 
to eat it.  Later, after seeing the open markets and 
learning what all the Chinese do actually eat, I suspended 
the rule. 

After dinner I walked around the corner with Brad and Chris 
to an Internet caf√© where we all sent e-mails and then 
headed back to our rooms.  After I finished packing I 
collapsed into bed with the thankful realization that, if 
the trip were to end at that moment, it would still have 
been well worth the price. 



   


