---
title: A Day in Beijing
creation_date: '2002-07-06'
image: phone.gif
author: Danny Spitler (dispitler)
layout: post
---

### Written by: Danny Spitler (dispitler)

China Chapters
Volume 2
The Forbidden City
By: Danny Spitler (dispitler@aol.com)

We arrived at the China World Hotel around noon on 
Saturday, China time.  We had lost a day crossing the 
International Dateline.  The hotel was five star in all 
respects and could rival any Hyatt Regency that I have ever 
stayed in.  On a quick visit to the basement level I found 
a fully equipped weight room, a 20-meter lap pool, a steam 
room, sauna, whirlpool, and a cold plunge.  I wouldn't have 
any trouble doing my upper body exercises while we were in 
Beijing, and from the looks of the schedule my legs were 
going to get all the work they needed.

The hotel provided a private room for our group's "welcome 
to China" dinner, and we all headed for bed in an attempt 
to get our bodies on China time (15 hours ahead of Mountain 
standard). Ten hours later we were standing in Tinanmen 
Square.  It was Sunday so there were thousands of weekend 
Chinese tourists as well as locals joining us in the 
square, but it is the largest town square in the world so 
there was plenty of room for all of us.   We split up for a 
while then regrouped for the mandatory group picture with 
the Gate of Heavenly Peace in the background.  This is the 
entrance to the Forbidden City and the place where Mao Ze 
Dung stood to proclaim the beginning of the People's 
Republic of China on October 1, 1949.  You can imagine the 
party that they are going to have here in a couple of 
months at the 50th anniversary of that event.

For our group picture a couple of the girls cajoled an 
uniformed policemen into joining our group for the 
picture.  He seemed cordial enough, but as I looked at the 
single red star on his shirt and cap, I couldn't help but 
wonder if he might have been wielding an automatic weapon 
and gunning down students on this very spot several years 
ago.

From the huge square we walked through a walkway under the 
main street facing the square and emerged across the street 
to enter the Gate of Heavenly Peace and into the Forbidden 
City.  Our Beijing guide, Jon Jin, purchased our tickets 
and we were transferred from modern day China to six 
centuries earlier as we began to wander through the huge 
city built exclusively for the many emperors who ruled 
China for over two milleniums.

It was hot and humid and there were thousands of other 
tourists to contend with, but nothing could detract me from 
being amazed with what we were viewing.  The Disney 
Corporation has had no input into crowd control at this 
place, and in order to see the emperor's throne you had to 
fight your way through hundreds of other tourists.  
Everyone was struggling to get to a small viewing point, 
where only a dozen people could stand.  Most of our group 
didn't attempt it, but I dove headfirst into the melee and 
grasp that rarest of feelings..….being one of the tallest 
persons in the crowd.  After five minutes of squirming 
through every opening, no matter how small, I found myself 
standing in from of the massive throne.  I stayed only long 
enough to take a well-earned photo and then started 
fighting my way back out of the crowd.  I finally broke 
free with the feeling that I had just had an intimate 
encounter with a small percentage of the Chinese 
population.

We continued to wander from one amazing site to another 
listening to Jon Jin provide interesting facts and stories 
along the way until we finally arrived at a building 
housing some of the emperor's private rooms.  We were able 
to view the rooms though a glass wall, which was 
sufficiently smudged with many days of pollution, 
fingerprints and nose prints.  I thought about the 
potential profits of a Windex concession stand.  The ladies 
in our group were interested in hearing about the elaborate 
robes and the spectacular jewel encrusted crowns, necklaces 
and rings worn by the emperor.  The males in the group were 
more interested in the concubine statistics.  According to 
Jon Jin the emperor kept a significant number of concubines 
on his staff, and when he decided which one he would sleep 
with on a given night she would be delivered to him naked, 
in order to insure that she was not carrying any weapons.  
Then she would have to crawl to his bed on her hands and 
knees to make sure that her head was never higher than his 
head.  This was a major no-no.  I think that we can 
conclude from this story that sex has not changed much over 
the last few centuries.   We still take time to remove the 
jewelry and there is still groveling involved.  We have 
just had gender role reversal.

Prior to exiting the Forbidden City we were ushered into a 
gift shop where the People's Republic gave us every 
opportunity to contribute filthy, capitalistic, Yankee 
dollars to Chinese economic development.   Then we were 
whisked through some narrow residential streets to a 
restaurant that was tucked back off the beaten path.  As it 
turned out this was one of Chairman Mao's favorite places 
to eat.  His smiling face adorned the wall of the entryway, 
and I assumed that he signed his picture with Chinese 
characters which could be loosely interpreted as "Who loves 
ya, baby?"

We packed our hot, sweaty bodies around two large, round 
tables and had the first of many sumptuous Chinese lunches 
and dinners.  I quickly relearned my chopstick skills and 
was soon snatching items onto my plate as the dishes rolled 
by on the center lazy susan.

After lunch and a short bus ride to the suburbs we found 
ourselves wandering around through the extensive grounds of 
the Summer Palace, used by several of the last emperors.  
There were many buildings, statues, and gardens along with 
a huge lake, which we learned, was dug out by several 
thousand peasants.  The highlight of hot, crowded afternoon 
was when tall Brad (6’ 8”)  waded into a large group of 
grade school kids on a field trip and let them all pose for 
pictures with the giant American.

We arrive back at the hotel just in time for a quick shower 
before reassembling in the lobby for a trip to a downtown 
restaurant and a Peking Duck dinner.  Dinner was followed 
by a request for a special stop on the way back to the 
hotel.  Jon Jin went to bat for us with the bus driver, and 
we all got to buy T-shirts at the Hard Rock Café of 
Beijing.

Next…..The Great Wall 
I





