---
title: Beautiful Belize
creation_date: '2003-03-23'
image: book.gif
author: RE Ausetkmt (ausetkmt)
layout: post
---

### Written by: RE Ausetkmt (ausetkmt)

This winter I took a holiday cruise which included the 
port of Belize City, Belize. I had never traveled to 
Belize so this was the perfect opportunity; with the fares 
rockbottom. My Friend Mary - who incidentially is MS 
Buffalo Soldier 2002 was my co traveler.

We arrive in Belize early in the morning, before sunrise.  
I get a 630am wake up call so that I can see the ship, as 
it’s greeted by the many small tenders who would ferry us 
to Belize City’s port.  The television broadcast of the 
sunrise over the ship’s bow was absolutely breathtaking.  
I enjoyed getting showered and somewhat dressed, while 
looking at the deck pics for about half an hour before I 
could convince Mary to get up. I had left our tag out last 
night before I retired, for breakfast delivery to our 
cabin, for 8am; so that we’d miss the dining room fracas 
that often accompanies a day in port.  The room service 
attendant delivered our freshly made hot tea, hot 
chocolate, fresh fruit plates, a fresh croissant and those 
infernal prune Danish pastries.

  Since there was only one croissant I took it, because 
Mary still wanted to go to the Dining room for a hot 
breakfast.  I ate sitting on my bed, as she hurriedly 
showered and dressed for breakfast in the dining room.  
When she was ready, we went to the dining room for her 
breakfast. I had Hot Chocolate, and read the Xeroxed copy 
port guide.  The very fact that they print one fresh which 
is readable for Cozumel, and give you an almost unreadable 
photocopy of a guide for Belize is unbelievable.  Mary and 
I sit with a lovely woman from California, who is 
traveling alone and quite independent.  We enjoy talking 
about our travels and the similarity’s of being 40-
Somethings.  She says that the shore excursion talk had 
almost dissuaded her from going ashore in Belize, but that 
she was reconsidering it after listening to what we had 
planned for the day.  I must admit that we had quite a 
laundry list of items to do while in Belize.  While we 
were at Breakfast there was a ship wide announcement that 
anyone who was booked on a shore excursion should report 
to the showroom for an immediate disembarkation ticket in 
order to reach their shore excursion in time.  We saw many 
folks rushing into the elevator who were obviously not 
going to be going tubing or to the zoo, but just wanted to 
get off the ship after 2 days of being confined at sea.

 

Many of those quiet looking grandmother types can be 
lethal with their bags when standing in line waiting to 
get onto the tenders, so watch who you are standing 
behind, and give them a little space;  a lady who was not 
paying attention almost knocked another woman off the 
tender platform because the woman reached for the handrail 
to board the tender and her gigantic shopping bag punched 
the woman behind her, knocking her off balance on the sea 
moored platform.  So Ladies, take care with those packages 
and bags when boarding those tenders and disembarking on 
those sea moored platforms; Especially  like this one in 
Belize, which pulls up right beside the ship.  Yes it is 
towed out to the ship, and the ship moors and drops anchor 
while the tenders pull up alongside this floating sea 
dock, and pick up passengers to tender to the port. This 
can be a bit of  an inconvenience if you have any mobility 
limitations. The folks on the platform and the captain on 
the tenders, take good care of the passengers and make 
sure that the boats are securely anchored to the platform 
so that no one falls. 

 (You can see my photo’s of the tendering and Belize Trip 
in the photo album for this review which is located at 
http://ausetkmt.com/winter-holiday02.html)
 

Mary and I get tickets in the showroom, ship stickers, and 
then go back up onto the deck to watch the tendering 
process.  It is at least noon before we are able to get on 
a tender and into Belize City.  We eat lunch in the Lido 
Café while we are waiting.  There are various salads, cold 
cuts, and Hand Carved Roast Beef, Turkey and Ham. All 
manner of sandwich making materials, slices of various 
cakes, pies, and cookies are in abundance.  The entire 
café is full of folks watching the tendering process out 
of the windows while having lunch, a nice idea indeed.  

Mary spots Scotty and Billy. They have a table in the 
middle and since we have a table by the windows we invite 
them over.  They come over and we discuss our plans for 
the day in Belize. Their shore excursion is called for 
disembarkation, and they leave us sitting and watching the 
tenders come and go like a small fleet of water taxi’s.  
it’s interesting to see how NCL Gets it’s passengers 
ashore in some locations, and this is one of the most 
innovative that I’ve enjoyed in my many cruises with 
them.  

Finally at 12:30 they give a general shore call and we 
depart for deck two.  Mary and I follow the hordes to the 
disembarkation point and wait our turn to get onto the 
tender.  The way that they take time to help each 
passenger get onto the tender safely makes me wonder if 
they have a special training class for this. It seems so 
coordinated. Finally it’s our time to get on.  We show our 
boarding passes and Passports to the security officers and 
we are through the portal to the platform. When we go down 
the gangway onto the floating platform, it’s not exactly 
clear to us what is moving which way; but the moment that 
you put your foot on that platform, you know.  I move 
quickly because I can see that the sea swells are moving 
both the platform, Ship and then there’s the Tender.  

 

When I get to the tender from the gangplank, I get 
assistance from two gentleman, who literally lift me over 
the steps onto the tender.  How Nice. next they lift 
Mary.  We both smile.  We make our way over to the other 
side of the tender and sit with our backs to the water, on 
the port side.  This is prime space for a photographer, 
and I’ve got two empty cards ready to go.  We have a seat 
next to a nice couple we’ve seen onboard and spoken to 
several times. They are excited about going to Belize 
since they’ve been to every other Caribbean port that NCL 
offers.  They were veterans of at least 20 cruises, and 
had come strictly to come to Belize.  They were as excited 
as we were.  

Behind Mary was a group of  folks from Tennessee who 
Fished like Mary.  They were so excited about the 
possibility of getting a fast fishing charter at the port 
that afternoon.  They said they had been slightly 
discouraged by Al’s shore talk, but had already done their 
own research in advance so they had a good idea of what 
they wanted to do in Belize.  We told them that we rented 
a car for the day, rather than doing a shore excursion 
since it seemed more logical to use to spend the money to 
really see Belize instead of just the inside of a tour bus 
for the same money. They said they agreed, and had made 
email arrangements with a fisherman who would be meeting 
them at the tourist village water taxi stop to take them 
fishing for a half day for less than $100.00 for four of 
them, including Rum punch and Bait,  the captain was 
throwing in the use of his poles since they were traveling 
on a cruise ship.  Talk about Belizean Hospitality, Yeahhh 
Mon !!!

 

We take off when the tender is full and we head off to 
Belize City, passing many smaller cayes, and enjoying the 
warm ocean spray on our arms and faces.  Everyone onboard 
was treated to a short waterfront tour by the tender 
captain on entering the harbor.  We all sat quietly 
excited as we pulled into the bustling port of  Belize 
City, Belize C.A.  Everyone disembarked the tender with 
the assistance of the tender captain and his staff, and 
NCL Port staff easily.  The dock is busy with activity 
from vendors, water taxi’s and visitors anxious to see all 
there is to see in the tiny colonial capitol. Mary and I 
enter the Belize Tourist Village and find a courtyard 
atmosphere complete with live musicians, tourist board 
reps handing out information, and various other tour 
operators soliciting for day tours, and water taxi 
excursions to the close-by tropical and exotic cayes.  We 
have a reservation for a car rental from Crystal Car 
Rentals and Tours;  they are located conveniently in the 
shopping craft park just outside the doors of the 
building.  


Our first stop is at the currency exchange, like lots of 
other folks.  The 2 for 1 exchange rate makes it a 
pleasure to exchange my little cash for their hand full of 
brightly colored bills and artfully cut coins.  I get a 
map from the lady at the tourist board, and give her my 
business card.  She asks if I will have time to stop at 
their main offices by the swing bridge, and I tell her 
that we are only there for the day.  She gives us a hug, 
and tells us to ask anyone on the street if we are lost 
and we’ll be easily directed.  I ask her if the reports of 
crime are true, and she tells me that they are 
exaggerations and that most crime recently has been 
tourists getting drunk and not minding their safety.  The 
police presence was clear, but not at all foreboding, as 
it is in Cozumel. ( more on that later )  We find Crystal 
easily in the lot outside in a small log cabin, clearly 
marked.  The lady’s in the office are pleasant when we 
enter the office, and immediately ask us if we’d like a 
cool drink.  

 

They have the reservation prepared and the car is ready 
and waiting in the lot for us. It’s already chilled out 
from the 90 degree Belizean Heat with the A.C. on low, and 
the radio playing low.  We go over a few basics on the 
rental, exchange the necessary info and we’re off. It 
takes us all of 10 minutes. If I could get such service at 
these computerized locations in the us and Europe.  The 
lady who goes over the car with me, gives me all kinds of 
good tips on parking, which is important since its scarce 
downtown; to where the petrol stations are for the refill 
before return of the vehicle. We get a nice clean new 2002 
blue ford escort. 4 doors, ac, clean and nice. Our waiter 
Locksley is in the port and spots us, we invite him along 
and he graciously accepts since he says he never comes 
ashore in Belize.  


We head out on the one way road from the tourist village 
and round the corner heading for the main shopping 
district. It takes us all of two minutes and we are on the 
main street in the middle of a bustling shopping district. 
It’s complete with all the normal smell, sights, sounds 
and lively activity of most Caribbean ports. There are 
street vendors hawking food, and drinks. Spiritualist 
begging for change for their missions, higglers selling 
their wares out of dressed up shacks and carts all along 
the many small lanes that jutted off the main street.  We 
were in search of either James Brodie or Ro-Macs, the 
largest retail food outlets in Belize City.  They were 
easily located on Albert Street, the Main Business 
Thoroughfare.  There was no place to park, not a spot to 
be found on any of the close streets, and not a lot in 
site.  I turn into an alley behind the Scotia bank 
Building and there is a car park, with open spaces.  Oh 
well,, how can I do this ??  I ask Locksley if he’d mind 
car sitting while we went and shopped quickly, since it 
was already 1:30 and he had to be back at the pier by 
4:30.  He said “No Problem Mon, go shop I’ll watch your 
car “ 

 

With that Mary and I dashed away with our shopping bags in 
hand and purses strapped on securely for the hunt.  We 
went across the street peering into the windows of various 
and sundry stores selling all matter of items.  Some of 
them familiar to me as a child of Caribbean lineage; and 
some that seem indigenous and required my firsthand 
investigation.  I walked up to a hand tortilla press which 
had an unusual looking stone plate to examine it’s 
beautiful lines and unusual plate. The Indian lady behind 
the counter smiled and asked me if I knew what it was, I 
laughed and answered in my best Jamaica patois, “Yeah Mon, 
Me use this nuff at home”. I put it down and thanked her, 
walking out the door at the opposite end past rows of 
galvanized tubs nailed to boxes stored on faded pastel 
shelves, overhead on the walls.  There was Marine paint, 
House paint and Nail polish all in the same section – how 
unique I thought.  

Maybe American vendors should see this useful logic, and 
stop plugging up our landfills with loads of paper from 
useless over packaging.  The clothes in the windows 
heralded the Hispanic and catholic influences left here 
after colonialization of the indigenous Belizeans.  We 
again find Brodie's and enter with gleeful looks, knowing 
that we will find some great bargains here.  Mary heads 
straight to the Liquor shop and survey’s the prices.  A 
lady who manages that section engages here and tells her 
to go to the Red House around the corner for the best 
prices on liquor.   I overhear her, and return a bottle of 
Coconut Rum to the brimming shelf.. the Belmican beer is 
in two types, so I get one bottle of each, since I have no 
intentions of taking a full six pack back home on a plane 
after this cruise.

I decide to still get a bottle of Parrot Special Rum, 
because I hear it is hard to find, and Anejo.  I am old a 
fan of Anejo Rums; and this will certainly make my 
holidays cheery.  Even the label on the bottle is pretty 
with it’s brightly colored parrot and festive lettering; 
besides at $5.00 us it’s a bargain.  I get it and the beer 
and move out of the liquor store into the grocery store. I 
am tired of holding all this glass so I get a trolley and 
head for the spice aisle.  I find all manner of Recanto. I 
get 3, two regular and 1 hot.  Then I grab some bright 
yellow Indian curry powder.  It’s color signifies it’s 
freshness in this case.  The Recanto blocks were less 
than  .75 cents each us. The Curry was about .50 cents for 
more than 2oz’s, and it was so fresh.

I spot the condiments and head straight to the Marie's 
Sauces. I am in Heaven. there is a gentleman standing in 
front of the sauces looking at them and smiling as I 
walked up. He looked at me, and said in a french accent " 
Do you know which one is the best ? " I smiled back and 
replied that I planned to buy all of Maries' sauces and 
test them out for the first time. I also admitted that I 
was told that they were the most flavorful hot sauces in 
the condiment section, in Belize. He did exactly as I did, 
and selected one of each sauce from the shelf and placed 
them into his also burgeoning hand basket. I picked up the 
Habanero Jelly and looked at it's lovely label, and he 
also took a jar. we both smiled at each other, knowing 
that heat even with sugar can still be lethal. I spotted 
the Exotic Sauce and grabbed a bottle, pointing it out to 
him as well, and then the Sweet Orange Hot Sauce. We were 
truly in Hot Sauce Heaven. a fellow connisour to share a 
brief moment, in such an exotic locale as this supermarket.

He smiles as he walks away toward the front of the store, 
as I inspect some caribbean canned goods, on the other 
side of the aisle. when I head toward the front to 
checkout, Mary is no where to be found. I know she can't 
be far, since we often wander away from eachother without 
saying a word and just somehow miraculously manage to find 
each other again soon there after, without a word. I 
placed my trolley into the checkout line behind the other 
shoppers. when my turn came, I began placing the sauces 
and spices onto the belt. The cashier and her bagger 
looked at eachother smiling, then smiling the cashier said 
to me, " You really Like it Hot". I laughed too, and 
said " Oh Yes, don't we all..." they asked if I was 
staying in town, and I admitted to being a cruiseship 
passenger intown for the day, and in the supermarket even 
while on holiday. They got quite a laugh out of that one. 


I paid for the goods, all three bags including Rum, 
amounted to $30.00 BZ. that's about $15.00 us, what a 
deal. I asked the ladies if they knew where to get cheap 
liquor and they said "the Red House around the corner." 
Little did I know, Mary had already finished looking in 
the windows of the shops that interested her on Albert St. 
and was enroute to help me with the packages. She came 
around the corner of the doorway just as I was taking the 
heavy glass laden bags off of the check out stand. She 
asked me if I tried to buy out the store, and of course I 
laughed again. we headed to the car to drop off this load. 
enroute we stopped at the cart of a man selling cold 
coconut water, and sodas, taking one for each of us, we 
headed on across the street to the car. Locksley was 
chilling in the car when we walked up, he jumped out to 
help us get the packages into the trunk of the car. It was 
Mary's turn to drive, and my turn to dictate the route, as 
if I knew where we were headed. We got into the car and 
headed back out onto Albert St, toward the Swing Bridge. 

When we spotted the Bridge, we looked at it quickly, as 
the traffic is nonstop fast, and moving in all directions 
at once. the fact that we were tourists in a rental car 
made little difference, it seemed. We turned at the 
bridge's fork in the road heading across the canal, and 
into a neighborhood. it resembled most of the english 
caribbean neighborhoods that I had visited, over the 
years. It was closely packed, one way streets, and lots of 
businesses sandwiched in everywhere. We spot it, The Red 
House. it's is White in fact, but the sign says "The Red 
House Liquors". we park across the street and go into the 
store, and check out a huge selection of liquors of every 
description on shelves covered by wire hurricane fencing. 
I'm wondering why ? but then it hits me, this is their 
security system. In the caribbean folks are ingenius, and 
this was truly neccessity at work. Mary asks for a special 
liquor, and they have it. she says the price is good, so I 
ask for my choices and they bring them out to the counter. 
I must agree with her, because I got three fifths of Rum 
and was very happy. they even gave us a 2003 Calendar to 
remember them by. the calendar has some delictible recipes 
which will no doubt be prepared in my kitchen, far from 
the Red House in Belize City.

We again take our bagged purchases and head back to the 
car, this time with Locksley in tow. he is so patient, 
following us around like this. We get back into the car, 
and head down the street looking at the people on the 
lanes as we pass. many smile and wave at us, and we wave 
back. we see children in school uniforms crossing the 
canal, and decide to stop. Mary instantly spots some 
Fishermen selling fish from stalls on the oposite side of 
the canal. she goes over to chat with them, and Locksley 
and I follow. they are selling Red Snapper, Yellow Tail 
Snapper, and some other beautiful local fish. Mary is not 
impressed. She asks them how much for a half day fishing 
charter, and one of them answers $300.00. I ask him is 
that Belezian, or us dollars ? and he answers US. I crack 
up, along with Mary. Locksley lowers his head and shakes 
it, laughing at the obvious joke. We tell the man that we 
get the joke, and we'll be back to see him when we are 
ready to go fishing. He laughs too. 


we cross the street and talk to some Rastas standing on 
the corner selling Water Coconuts, and Sugarcane in small 
plastic bags ready to eat. I introduce myself, Mary and 
also Locksley and ask to buy the Coconut Water. the Rasta 
smiles back and hands me a freshly opened coconut, then he 
hands one to Mary and Locksley. I ask him how much, and He 
says to Enjoy the bounty of Jah Rastafari. I am so 
thankful for this natural refreshment and the kind 
greeting of the Brethren. We exchange addresses and hug 
goodbye. it is a wonderful experience indeed. as we walk 
away Mary says that she is hungry and the dread directs us 
to a local restaurant, Dot's; Just across the canal, one 
block down. We get into the car, and wave as we drive 
away. we find the restaurant easily, park and go in. We 
enter the Clean simple homestyle establishment. the menu 
is in chalk on a board above the counter window, where the 
smiling Chef, and Cashier await our order. Mary orders the 
Sorrell and Snapper Stew upon the Recommendation of 
another smiling friendly Rasta Brethren sitting in the 
restaurant. I introduce myself to him, and he says he is 
Ras Iley. 

We Hug and exchange Rasta Pleasantrys. it is lovely again 
to meet a nice and pleasant person just looking to share 
the wonderful goodness of his city with us. Mary orders, 
the cook instantly serves her, and we sit down at the 
table with Ras Iley to chat while Mary enjoys her lunch. a 
very small older indian woman enters the restaurant. she 
is dressed in a white embroidered peasant top and a yellow 
satin skirt. she is selling baskets, small sweetgrass 
handwoven baskets. I take two of them from her hands and 
examine them. I ask her how much for them, and she says 
$20.00. I reply to her $10.00 she laughs and reinterates 
$20.00. I open my purse and count out the few american 
dollars that remain, and find just $15.00, I hand it to 
her, and she takes it smiling at me. I ask her if I can 
take her photo, and she again asks me for some more money. 
I laugh and reply that she has to know that she has all of 
my money. She stands next to me and allows Ras Iley to 
photograph us. Then she holds the baskets while I take her 
picture with them. She tells us that she came from 
Guatamala and that she is a Mayan Indian. I am sure that 
she is. she says that she came by walking, and on the bus. 
Ras Iley confirms that this is quite normal for the Mayans 
to move about in this manner. Belize is very near 
Guatamala and you see many indians in Belize.

We Hug Everyone and take photos as we leave the restaurant 
to take Locksley back to the Pier, for his return to the 
ship. We pass a billboard from the Ministry of Health, 
urging not to bring Aids Home. I of course have to have a 
photo of that. when we drop Locksley back at the pier, 
Mary and I decide to go over to the Lighthouse and Pier on 
the other side of the waterfront. It is lovely, and the 
plaque says that it's The Bliss Memorial. We park the car 
beside the road and walk out onto the rocks to check out 
the water. it is dark and murky, not the Caribbean Blue 
found out farther from the well dyked shoreline 
embankments. The water is warm though, and we take 
pictures and sit and talk for a while; watching the 
tenders ferry passengers to the various ships anchored off 
the coastline. It's almost 5pm and we still have to fill 
up the car with petrol before returning it, for our tender 
back at 530pm. 


We pile back into the car, with me driving. we return back 
to the Shell petrol station nearest the tourist port. I 
ask the attendant to fill up the tank, and without looking 
I was defrauded outright by the attendant and then the 
manager. Mary screamed Stop Stop. the Attendant 
asked "What..?" Mary said look, the pump says $20.00 
that's not possible. What ? I know this is wrong. Mary and 
I both start looking at the attendant, I ask for the 
manager, who promptly appears from the office, bad 
attitude and all. I tell him that there is no way that 
this car could hold that much petrol when we had only 
clocked 20 miles on the odometer, which showed it clearly 
below the speedometer. The lady at the car rental place 
set it back for us, and said that it might come in handy 
in a situation like this. Well when I held the money up to 
pay the attendant, the Manager snatched the money out of 
my hand, literally tearing it in half. I refused to give 
him the other half, and asked him to call the local 
police. He refused. He then blocked my car from moving 
from the pump while calling me all kinds of names. I think 
he wanted a Detroit Style Beatdown. I just wasn't in the 
mood for this, after such a lovely day in Belize. I toss 
the other half of the torn twenty out of the window and 
holler that I will be lodging a complaint with Shell and 
Belize Tourism against his station. Therefore I am warning 
everyone who goes and rents a car in Belize - Do Not 
Patronize the Shell Station nearest the Belize Tourism 
Village - lest you be Hookwinked, Bamboozled and called 
out of your name. 

This station manager deserves a full day of hearing Al the 
ship's unprepared Port Tour Director Discuss why not to go 
to Belize. Maybe he would understand how powerful one 
experience can be to ruin a business, and end a career. I 
followed up after this incident with the Belize Tourism 
Folks and as well the Folks at Royal Dutch Shell; I am 
awaiting their responses in regard to the incident. I 
expect that anyone who visits the page and takes my advice 
in regards to this incident, Will be Properly " Forewarned 
and Fore Armed, against this Crooked Manager and Shell 
Station". 

When we arrive back at the car rental office and return 
the car, we tell them about the incident and they take a 
report and file it with the manager of the agency; who 
will be advising their future customers about this 
incident. We explore the shops at the tourist craftmarket 
after returning the car, and unloading our huge cache of 
goods. I stand guard over the goods while Mary Shops and 
She does the same for me. We find nice teeshirts - Cheap; 
and some cute little key rings, and I of course Have My 
Postage Stamps and Cards. we walk back around to the pier 
and get in line with the others awaiting the final tender 
back to our ship. We spot Billy and Scotty. they look 
tired. They see us and come up in line to where we are. 
the folks behind us say it's not a problem, thank 
goodness. They had a fun day Tubing and at the beach on 
one of the cayes, on a shore excursion. they say it was 
$100. us each. Oh My God I exclaim. Scotty says, " Well 
Yeah.." Billy chimes in that it wasn't worth it, and that 
they wished they had gone shopping with us instead. he 
asks us what goodies we came back with, and the Tender 
begins to load. We find seats together and enjoy the 
breezy sunset ride back to the ship. the sunset is 
absolutely breathtaking. 



When we arrive back at the floating pier alongside the 
ship, many of the passengers required more assistance 
because the swells had increased since our departure. I 
was assisted with my bags by Billy and Scotty. Mary, Billy 
Scotty and I all went through the security check and xray 
just fine, with no confiscations. there was a warning 
somewhere posted that liquor may be confiscated upon 
reboarding. we didn't hide any of the fifths that we 
returned with, and neither did anyone else. we saw nothing 
confiscated. only the duty free purchased liquor was being 
held in bond at the security access point. it was in cases 
marked with cabin numbers and Passenger Names. that must 
be the key, don't buy it at the duty free if you want to 
have it in your cabin.

I was tired from the port call, and decided to have dinner 
ensuite. Mary met Scotty and Billy for Dinner, where I 
understand they enjoyed Lobster and Shrimp, at the pasta 
cafe on the pool deck. I slept and watched a movie on tv. 
for dinner I enjoyed a Caesar Salad and pot of Long Island 
Ice Teas. I needed to chill out and I was gonna do it, for 
at least a few hours before tonight somehow. It was 
Caribbean Night on the ship and the theme included a 
Caribbean Deck Party commencing around 10pm, outside under 
the stars on the Pool Deck. This was absolutely the trick 
to getting folks out of their cabins and drinking after 
dinner on this night. The featured drink - the Rum Runner 
was Festively Served in a whole Pineapple - top included. 
It was delicious, and priced right at $5.95 each. The 
trays were emptying as fast as they hit the deck. There 
was also a Caribbean BBQ, complete with Shrimp, Grilled 
Chicken, and Steak. The ondeck music and dance party was 
highlighted with a Drag Show of Men; all imitating Carmen 
Miranda. they were lined up in the elevator lobby when I 
departed the mayhem of the party for the quiet of my 
cabin, at around 1030pm. I was ready for a good nights 
sleep after two of those lethal pineapples. I can't tell 
you when Mary came in because I was knocked out happily 
so. 


All in all I recommend a day in Belize to wet your thirst 
for a full week in this still tropical paradise.  the air 
prices to Belize from the midwest are not unreasonable and 
the country offers so much more in natural beauty; than a 
visit to it's over domesticated neighbor Cozumel Mexico.
Plan for a car rental for a day and you'll have the best 
time; take time and get a map from the website and then 
talk to the folks at the tourist board booth in the 
tourist village - and they'll be happy to point you in the 
direction of any of the numerous natural attractions and 
ecological wonders that can only be enjoyed in a pristine 
environment like Central America, and Beautiful Belize.  


